# 2026-04-24

[Modern Operating Systems]: https://www.google.com/books/edition/Modern_Operating_Systems_Global_Edition/cHa2EAAAQBAJ
[Do prediction market bettors make anything better?]: https://www.npr.org/transcripts/nx-s1-5789382

## CPU vs. GPU core-to-cache ratios

> A GPU is a processor with dedicated memory and, literally, thousands of itty-bitty cores. Compared to general-purpose processors, GPUs spend more of their transistor budget on the circuits that perform calculations and less on caches and control logic.

[Modern Operating Systems], sec.8.1.1.

For a CPU, each core must have a cache with a high enough hit ratio so it doesn't keep the memory bus busy with too many requests to RAM. Whereas cores allow for parallel processing, the memory bus is still serial, and if multiple cores all need to access it at the same time, each will have to wait its turn. This is why the more cores a CPU has, the higher the cache hit ratio each of those cores must have. This rule does not apply to GPU cores because they are programmed specifically to tolerate memory latency: the thread weight is ultralight with predictable memory access. Had GPU cores demanded high cache hit ratios like CPU cores do, these hit ratios would've been impossibly high, near 100%, since there are thousands of GPU cores.

## Advances in GPU hardware push us to learn CUDA and other new systems languages

> The term used for general-purpose processing on GPUs is (surprise): GPGPU. Unfortunately, programming GPUs efficiently is extremely difficult and requires special programming languages such as OpenGL, or NVIDIA’s proprietary CUDA. An important difference between programming GPUs and programming general-purpose processors is that GPUs are essentially ‘‘single instruction multiple data’’ machines, which means that a large number of cores execute exactly the same instruction but on different pieces of data.

[Modern Operating Systems], sec.8.1.1.

In the past, improving software performance often meant rewriting portions of it in a systems language like C to better utilize the available hardware resources. Now, if the work is parallelizable, we can also rewrite them in CUDA so they can be run efficiently on an NVIDIA GPU to take advantage of the massive parallelism offered by its thousands of cores. However, organizing the computation into a set of a large number of threads running in parallel, with adjacent threads accessing adjacent memory locations, is non-trivial.

## Kalshi and sinister interest

> I was watching a Mention Market where people were betting on what words a Federal Reserve official was going to say in a meeting about the crypto industry. It was on Zoom. And when the officials were taking questions from that Zoom, I saw Kalshi traders submitting questions as if they were just regular humans, trying really hard to get the official to say something they were betting on.

[Do prediction market bettors make anything better?]

Here, Bobby Allyn argues that prediction markets don't just predict the future; they influence the future, and often not in a way that it should be influenced to make it better. The people making the bets have perverse incentives: to get someone or something to behave in a way they wouldn't behave had there been no bets placed on their behavior. The longer the odds of something happening, the higher the payout. So, we are entering a world where gamblers are trying to pull it into all sorts of improbable directions it wouldn't otherwise go. What could go wrong? 
