# 2026-04-27

[Modern Operating Systems]: https://www.google.com/books/edition/Modern_Operating_Systems_Global_Edition/cHa2EAAAQBAJ

## Why operating systems have been patched to stop scheduling programs from different security domains to run simultaneously on the same core: the side-channel attacker

> It obtains the value of the CPU cycle counter, jumps to the virtual address of the next code page, gets the CPU cycle counter again, and calculates the difference. What good does this do? Well, if it took many CPU cycles to jump to the next page, it probably means that there was a TLB miss. That miss was presumably caused by the execution of program code in the victim process. Specifically, every slow jump corresponds to a page accessed by the victim. By observing the sequence of slow pages, the attacker can reconstruct, at least approximately, the sequence of accesses in the victim and from that derive the key.

```
for (every bit b in key) { 
  if (b == 0) then f0( ); 
  else f1( );
}
```

[Modern Operating Systems], sec.8.1.4.

When malware employing the side-channel attack notices that a program running simultaneously with it is constantly switching between pages, it can use the switching pattern observed from TLB misses to reconstruct the bits of the cryptographic secret it's using in decoding its data. The assumption that the procedure that runs on bit 0 and the one that runs on bit 1 reside on different pages has proven to be accurate enough to have enabled this sort of attack from the advent of multicore architectures up until the side-channel vulnerability patches were applied to them.
