# 2026-04-28

[Overtime with Bill Maher: Apr 24, 2026]: https://m.youtube.com/watch?v=hEBKikXOO3I
[Modern Operating Systems]: https://www.google.com/books/edition/Modern_Operating_Systems_Global_Edition/cHa2EAAAQBAJ
[Pop music as stock soundtrack to the small screen]: https://doi.org/10.1017/S0261143002002210

## Scheduling threads for cache affinity

> When thread A has run for a long time on CPU k, CPU k’s cache will be full of A’s blocks. If A gets to run again soon, it may perform better if it is run on CPU k, because k’s cache may still contain some of A’s blocks. Having cache blocks preloaded will increase the cache hit rate and thus the thread’s speed. In addition, the TLB may also contain the right pages, reducing TLB faults. Some multiprocessors take this effect into account and use what is called affinity scheduling. ... When a thread is created, it is assigned to a CPU, for example, based on which one has the smallest load at that moment. This assignment of threads to CPUs is the top level of the algorithm. As a result, each CPU acquires its own collection of threads. ... By trying to keep a thread on the same CPU for its entire lifetime, cache affinity is maximized.

[Modern Operating Systems], sec.8.1.4.

When a previously-run thread needs to continue running, the operating system will try to assign it to the core that ran it previously because that core's cache may still contain that thread's data.

## The difference between film and television music

> While it may be able to use pop songs in a cognate manner with films, it was never dominated by the convention of music being scored to action as has been the case with feature films. ... The nature of television itself has set severe limitations upon music and its reproduction. The medium has been dominated by sets with very small speakers that are inadequate for good musical sound. Small speakers have less of a frequency spectrum, creating a middle-based sound that is unable to be subtle and lacks the wide dynamics characteristic of feature film sound production.

[Pop music as stock soundtrack to the small screen].

Film production is an engine for music composition. Its action sequences often serve as blueprints for beats, pictures, rhythms, and chords in its score. Film composers are motivated to go all out on film music because they know that their work will go on to play on some of the best and largest speakers available—in movie theaters all over. Film music sometimes doesn't play well outside the theater because it wasn't intended to play on anything smaller. Meanwhile, some makers of television may be so invested in their product they give it the same regard they would reserve for film-making. In their ambition, they may be compelled to borrow film soundtracks to edit into what they're making for the small screen, however they may soon discover that film music isn't sufficient to score television. It often must be supplemented with library, pop, and/or original music made specifically for the smaller screen.

## Potential for insider trading on Kalshi by campaigning politicians

> If you look at the prediction markets on the probability that I'll win reelection, it's coming in around 97%, right? So, what was keeping me or my family from saying, "You know what? We have an idea. Let's put a $250,000 bet that I won't win reelection." And then I just basically tank it in. ... And then I quit. And then someone else wins and I would walk away with about $4 million.

[Overtime with Bill Maher: Apr 24, 2026], [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=9eb4c35b1c508d45cacd105d4c386c77).

Gov. Wes Moore explains a scheme by which someone in his position could insider-trade on Kalshi.

## Crime deterrent that works

> We did not increase the severity of the punishment. We increased the probability.

[Overtime with Bill Maher: Apr 24, 2026], [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=9eb4c35b1c508d45cacd105d4c386c77).

Gov. Wes Moore explains that death penalty doesn't work as a deterrent. His approach to reducing violent crime was beefing up law enforcement. Criminals aren't as afraid of what happens to them after they are caught as they are of being caught. 

## Waking up from a dream with song lyrics

> The fear and the pain
> of ____ passing in vain. 

Sounds like something Trent from Daria would come up with. Or this could be a lyric for an Anathema demo that ends up on the cutting room floor.
