# 2026-04-29

[Pivot: 4/21/2026]: https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725?episode=53685467220

## The drunkenness of Pete Hegseth and Kash Patel

> I like the idea of him and Hegseth are now referred to as the Liquor Cabinet.

[Pivot: 4/21/2026], [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=7664e4a18aecabe8e98ca2e041c42828).

Here, Scott Galloway plays with words to make a joke at the expense of the latest batch of Trump acolytes. They are embarrassingly flawed people. Their faults are on full display whenever the people clamor for another distraction. Yesterday, it was their lack of opsec. Today, it's their drunkenness. Tomorrow, it'll be the humiliation ritual of their asses getting voted off Trump's reality-show government. Then, their catty feud with the administration that keeps banishing its bootlickers. What a predictable clown show.

## Netflix stock is down: the market is coming to its senses

> Just some air was coming out of the stock.

[Pivot: 4/21/2026], [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=7664e4a18aecabe8e98ca2e041c42828).

One of the possibilities Scott Galloway voices to explain this market fluctuation stems from the fact that the market is a self-correcting system. A reality check will always come to an overvalued stock. Watch out for a crash landing, Tesla. Whether this also awaits Netflix is unclear, but it's entirely possible that we've just seen a wave predicting just that.

## The bond between podcasters and their audience

> They have a parasocial relationship with you, and they feel good about you. I think it's because you're physically in their ears oftentimes, so it creates intimacy. And also you're talking to them as they're doing something quite personal. They're walking the dog, they're doing the dishes. It's their morning routine.

[Pivot: 4/21/2026], [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=7664e4a18aecabe8e98ca2e041c42828).

I can attest to that. I've spoken to Kara Swisher in at least one of my dreams, as if we were personally aquatinted. I listen to her so much, I adopt her mannerisms. And Scott's. Good point here, Scott.

## If you buy your way out of life's obstacles, you're missing the point of living

> This is the hubris of accomplishment to be declared a genius at one thing is to begin to believe you are a genius at everything. It's not that the wealthy become evil, it's that their environment stops teaching them the things that non-wealthy people are forced to learn simply by living in a world that pushes back. When you can buy your way out of any mistake, when you can fire anyone who disagrees with you, when your social circle consists entirely of people who need something from you, the basic mechanism by which humans learn that other people are real goes dark.

[Pivot: 4/21/2026], [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=7664e4a18aecabe8e98ca2e041c42828).

Of course, Kara Swisher, who views the robber barons of today as prisoners of their own cashmere prisons, would highlight this Noah Hawley piece from The Atlantic. Yes, money changes people. It removes the struggle, which, paradoxically, hollows out their lives, to the point where many lash out at the world. Instead of sharing what they have with causes that matter, far too many rich people piss away their wealth on getting the world to give them attention. They troll us. They sow discord. Since it can't make them happy, they want the world to burn. They've misunderstood the assignment: the trick to happiness is not to lose everything just to win at capitalism. It's to hedge one's bets: the pursuit of money should not be all-consuming. There's so much more to life. Invest in your hobbies. Fight for your relationships. Be the voice for the voiceless. Fill your life with struggle and joy.

