# 2026-04-30

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos]: https://books.google.com/books?id=QVBcEQAAQBAJ

## Having found no place for themselves in society, nerds turn into hackers

> Young hackers are often academically gifted and start to investigate the intellectual challenges coding and hacking present in part because they are not adequately challenged by school or university technology subjects. ... Hacking allowed them to ‘acquire power’ where the rest of their lives were perhaps devoid of it, as well as providing a technical challenge. Some said they were bullied at school or had a tough home life. Hacking forums and chat rooms gave these boys a ‘sense of belonging’. The desire to prove themselves within these communities was cited as a huge driver that could lead to more serious illegal activity – carrying out a so-called ‘righteous hack’.

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos].

Hackers come from a place of intellectual curiosity. They are a byproduct of the society that's designed to work for the average person. It doesn't work for them. So they resort to violating its norms just so they can mold it to their liking.

## What motivates a hacker: unaffordability of home servers or just the love of the game?

> It’s not uncommon for hackers to go back to the scene of previous crimes and try their luck again. Some even plant pieces of computer code that allow them to have continued access. Once HTP had connected to ImageShack’s powerful computers they had full remote access to them, and they used the processing power to run a piece of software that could syphon through passwords to crack into other private accounts from different companies. This kind of computer-power hijacking can be big business, especially in recent years when it’s been done to carry out a ‘cryptojacking’ attack. The hacker will sneakily use a company’s computer power to run bitcoin mining software. The software quietly crunches through complex mathematical problems 24/7 and the perps will be rewarded every so often with new bitcoin. While the criminals cash in, the victims get nothing other than overheated hardware and a monster electricity bill. Sometimes IT technicians can smell a rat when they notice things are running a bit slower on their computers.

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos].

A hacker will often break into a server just for the thrill of it and only later will find a use for the compute power that's now at their disposal, simply out of convenience. The resource is available, one reasons, so why not make use of it?
