# 2026-06-01

[Enshittification]: https://books.google.com/books?id=eyc4EQAAQBAJ

## Paving the desire paths 

> A design principle from physical spaces like parks and campuses. Landscape architects look for places where people have worn the grass thin by cutting across lawns and fields (desire paths) and formalize them by leveling them and paving them or putting down gravel, wood chips, or some other material. ... Workarounds were observed and turned into official features.

[Enshittification].

There's no such thing as being overly obsessed with usage data. That's your most honest window into what your users want out of your product. If they create workarounds, convert them into features. If many of them perform the same sequence of actions, collapse those into a single action. Optimize your user experience based on what you observe in their interactions with your product. There's no need to ask your users what they want if you already have detailed usage data on your product. Revealed preferences are more important than declared preferences. 

## Capitalism turns greed into productivity, but this doesn't work without constraints

> Once a company is too big to fail, it becomes too big to jail, and then it becomes too big to care. Antitrust law was designed to fight that apathy and force companies to care.

[Enshittification].

Capitalism works so well because it doesn't try to go against human nature. Humans are greedy, but instead of moralizing on the subject, it puts it to use. But greed really is immoral, and if it's not constrained, it could lead to society's downfall. So, if you want capitalism to function, you need regulation. Antitrust law, privacy regulations, security compliance, things like that. Give companies the guardrails to push against, otherwise they will fall off the rails and drag all of society along with them. So get them busy bringing their products to compliance. Distract them from their greed.

## Only the wealthy can afford things in the post-Amazon economy

> When merchants raise their prices on Amazon, they are required to raise their prices everywhere else, even on their own direct-sales stores. This arrangement is called most-favored-nation status. ... If Amazon is taxing merchants 45 to 51 cents on every dollar they make, and if merchants are hiking their prices everywhere their goods are sold, then it follows that you’re paying the Amazon tax no matter where you shop. Amazon has made prices go up at Target. At Walmart. At the corner mom-and-pop hardware store. At the manufacturer’s own website.

[Enshittification].

Amazon makes everything more expensive for everyone. Thanks to the Amazon tax, people can now afford fewer things, and so fewer merchants survive on the market. This is one of the ways the economy is steadily converted into one that serves only those who can afford luxury goods. Essentially everything becomes a luxury good, and anyone who can't afford to live luxuriously can no longer afford anything.

## Companies do not self-police

> Companies abuse you if they can get away with it. That’s the crux of enshittification. Apple didn’t treat its customers well because it loved them. It treated them well to lure them into its walled garden, which was then revealed to be a prison.

[Enshittification].

It's not like company executives want to abuse anyone just for the sake of it. They opt to do it because it is the path of least resistance to satisfying their greed. Place regulations in their way, and they get busy trying to comply with those. When a company abuses its users, the blame is not squarely on the company. It is on the regulators that have failed to do their jobs.

## Lesson learned from Facebook and Apple: when a company promises to respect your privacy, expect it to break that promise

> For all that Apple presented itself as the surveillance-free alternative to Android (just as Facebook had once presented itself as the surveillance-free successor to MySpace), some aspects of the iPhone’s design made it an even more potent commercial surveillance tool than any Android device. The same lock-in that prevented users from modifying their iPhones in ways that potentially exposed them to danger also prevented users from modifying their iPhones to defend themselves against danger. That meant that once an app made it through the App Store vetting process, users were defenseless against it. Apps from major companies like Facebook (as well as innumerable bottom-feeding fly-by-night outfits) gathered data on iPhone users and funneled it into the commercial surveillance vortex, where it was sold, given away, stolen, published, and weaponized. Users could not install privacy blockers, spoofing tools, or any other utility that would let them push back against this abuse. Only Apple could do that—and it didn’t. As far as Apple was concerned, only the company could decide which privacy protections you deserved. By allowing for some surveillance on iOS, Apple could lure in more business customers. So iOS users had to tolerate whatever surveillance Apple judged to be tolerable.

[Enshittification].

Privacy is the promise a disruptor touts to its prospective users to differentiate itself from the incumbents. As the disruptor matures and stagnates, the need to jump the shark to keep shareholders happy starts to loom larger, and many opt for privacy violations for the sake of scraping up a few extra bucks on each of its users. Facebook promised to be everything MySpace was but with better privacy. Everyone knows how that turned out. Apple promised to be everything Google was but without selling their user data to advertisers or data brokers. Now Apple is the sole company that specifically doesn't allow its users the sort of privacy protection measures they ended up needing after all. When you hear a for-profit company boasting about its respect for privacy, don't hold your breath. 

## Cancer incidence has a skewed distribution, biased for advanced age

> The median age of a cancer diagnosis is 67 years. This means that half of cancer cases occur in people below this age and half in people above this age.

[Age and Cancer Risk](https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/causes-prevention/risk/age).

If we follow 100 people for a lifetime, we expect 40 of them to develop cancer, 20 of them before they turn 67 and 20 of them after.
