# 2026-06-03

[Darknet Diaries. Ep 71: Information Monopoly]: https://darknetdiaries.com/transcript/71/

## Yalu River is a place where Chinese children come to remind North Korean children that they are in a cult

> It’s a really narrow river, so ... you can even hear what they are saying. They ask you questions like, _are you hungry?_ They knew that we were hungry.

[Darknet Diaries. Ep 71: Information Monopoly].

North Korean defector Yeonmi Park recounts her childhood on a river bank looking over at the other side where children are well-fed and life doesn't seem as grim.

## The future of North Korea is a military coup, gradual westernization, and integration into South Korea

> What could very well happen is some sort of coup at the top where the military or the one percent in North Korea just learn enough about what’s going on in the outside world where they’re basically like, _enough of this_, and they get rid of this theocratic Kim dynasty, and they take power for themselves. You have a military dictatorship in North Korea now, no longer a theocratic sort of dynasty, but you have a military dictatorship in North Korea that’s willing to negotiate. Kim Jung’s Un’s uncle was one of these guys, but they called him a reformer ‘cause he’s the one who used to deal with the Chinese. Now, of course, Kim Jun Un saw this as a threat and they killed him within weeks of taking power. One of the first things he did as a signal to everybody else that _oh, we’re gonna get rid of all the reformers_. But if the Kim family moves out of the equation, all of a sudden you have a huge opportunity for actually having a constructive dialogue with the North Korean government ... if there wasn’t a lunatic theocratic religious government in North Korea, if it was just a straight-up military dictatorship. That’s, I think, what we want as a first step towards a free North Korea which would be, of course, part of – the whole peninsula would be a free country. It would be one Korea. That’s, of course, the ultimate vision here.

[Darknet Diaries. Ep 71: Information Monopoly].

Alex Gladstein, chief strategy officer for the Human Rights Foundation, has a plan for freeing North Korea, and it involves smuggling flash drives with Western movies and interviews with North Korean defectors. Once enough North Korean people figure out that the outside world is better than the regime, Alex hopes, enough of those people will have the power to organize the overthrow of the Kim dynasty. South Korea is a big part of the path to freedom, but it is also the source of much of present-day pressure on the Kim family. Having a modernized, successful partner of the West that speaks the same language and shares much of the same culture is perhaps why the Kims have turned their country into such a death camp. It was out of sheer desperation and an inability to compete with globalization that they have resorted to brainwashing and torturing their own people.
