# 2026-06-04

## Sometimes the justice system makes corporations pay their victims. Factoring companies exist to take back as much of this money as possible.

> The company's head of sales wrote that their clientele can barely form sentences, and its sales manual instructed staffers to bombard potential customers with calls saying, "You are expected to call that lead nine to 10 times a day for the next three days, and you must also be texting them, emailing them, and trying to find them on social media like Facebook." It also specified that the people who either call in or reply very late at night are most likely the best leads because they are the people who are up at night worrying about money.

[Last Week Tonight](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Last_Week_Tonight_with_John_Oliver_episodes): May 17, 2026, [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=b2fe87c71ad20fe9c71bba7e49a173f2).

Christians were right to make greed one of the deadly sins. Look what it does to people in the corporate world. It turns them into monsters hellbent on figuring out insidious ways to prey on the most vulnerable among their fellow men and women. In their option, money is not supposed to flow from corporations to the people, no matter how much damage said corporations have wrought on the people they're sentenced to pay. I wouldn't be surprised if in their minds, those employed by factoring companies are rationalizing that what they're doing is simply restoring the natural order.
