# 2026-06-06

[What are Lichens?]: https://www.researchgate.net/publication/383947523_What_are_Lichens

## Humans live among plants to grow them for their benefit, so humans and plants from a symbiotic superorganism resembling a lichen

> Lichens are a case of fungi that have discovered agriculture.

[What are Lichens?]

Lichenologist Trevor Goward anthropomorphizes fungi to relate their evolution into lichens to the agricultural revolution of our own species. We have learned to grow plants as to optimize their yield to us, and so have they. Typically, when colonies of two different species meet, they fight each other. Ants chemically identify intruders and physically right them. Fungi produce antibiotics to clear the way for their expansion. Bacteria produce antifungals. However, sometimes the colonies remain in conflict for so long their prolonged contact pushes them into symbiosis. The colonies merge where one organism starts employing the other for the benefit of the whole emerging superorganism. This is how lichens came to be.

## What to say to your electorate when they catch you cheating

> I am an imperfect man. I have demonstrated terrible judgment on several occasions in my marriage, and I have a great marriage. What about you?

[Pivot: 6/2/2026](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725?episode=55603303008), [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=236c24698ee51bd18d8d229117ad7051).

Scott Galloway delivers the speech he wishes Graham Platner would deliver (instead of trying to deny the reports of his infidelity promulgated by the media). Democrats can forgive a philanderer, but they won't forgive a liar.
