# 2026-06-07

[Enshittification]: https://books.google.com/books?id=eyc4EQAAQBAJ

## Paradox: people with the most freedom tend prefer Apple, the most restrictive product ecosystem there is

> iPhones use software and hardware locks to prevent users from modifying Apple’s rules. This is a system that works well, but fails badly. So long as Apple remains a benevolent dictator, your iPhone is a walled garden that protects you from the bad guys who want to attack you. But if Apple turns on you, that walled garden becomes a prison, one that pens you in and makes you easy pickings. Apple’s total control over the iPhone meant that the more you used your phone, the more hooks Apple could sink into you, raising the switching costs of leaving the platform. The things you created—message histories, notes, calendar entries—were shackled to the platform, as was the media you bought: books, videos, and music. Apple—not you—gets to decide whether you can install an app to make it easier to slurp all that data out of your iPhone and transmit it to an Android or Windows device.

[Enshittification].

When choosing a product, service, or location, opt for the choice that gives you the most freedom. If you can live anywhere in the world, live in the free world. No one wants to get a knock on the door to be taken to a gulag. The same principle applies to choosing a platform for your business. If you want to host a web app on the cloud, don't give your money to a web hosting provider. Even if you get a plan that gives you access to a self-managed VPS, there probably isn't much you could do with it programmatically outside of SSH. Give your money to a cloud computing provider instead. But don't architect your web app across the provider's various microservices like API Gateway and Lambda. This is going to make it harder for you to leave. If you're on AWS, just put your code on EC2 or ECS. That way, when AWS completes its enshittification process, you could easily move your web app to a different service. The iPhone is like a web hosting provider. It significantly limits what you can do with a phone if you're a developer, and if you choose to leave, you'll have to start from scratch. Android gives you a little bit more freedom (it used to be a lot more freedom, but behold the enshittification). Perhaps, the phones should be treated like PCs now: just as we would buy a PC with a bunch of bloatware (aka Windows) just to replace it with Linux, perhaps we should start replacing Android with Linux, too. A freer distro than Android, that is.
