# 2026-06-09

## America won't have another nuclear deal with Iran, but it doesn't matter

> In 2013, we began to try an effort, without using force but using economic pressure and sanctions, that brought Iran to the negotiating table. And after two years of negotiations resulted in a nuclear deal that prevented Iran from building a nuclear weapon. ... Now we have to go back to the negotiating table, and we're going to go back with a much weaker hand and end up with a deal that I will be very surprised if it's nearly as good as what we got in 2015.

[Real Time with Bill Maher: 6/6/2026](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/742515?episode=55844461357), [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=18c8dbaa06e31ab8ee7ec397f3d93765).

Susan Rice explains why pulling out of the Iran Nuclear Deal was a bad idea: everything done afterwards has weakened the negotiating hand of America against Iran. But the outcome of a negotiation doesn't just depend on preparation. It also depends on luck. One could play the hand he's dealt (in other words, come to the negotiating table with no preparation), and if the negotiation fails, it could be rationalized that no amount of preparation could've ever made it succeed. If you show your interviewer exactly who you are and don't get the job, then the job was never truly yours. Had you gotten it by faking your way through the interview, you'd be signing up to be in a job that wasn't for you. Maybe America can never reach a satisfactory deal with Iran and doesn't need to. The best angle from which to view a negotiation is the unemotional one. Conduct a negotiation in such a way that its outcome doesn't matter. Your job is to be fine either way. If you don't get the job, look for another. If looking for a job is too stressful and exhausting, put less effort into the process. To succeed is to persevere through many rejections. America's job is to be fine regardless of what Iran chooses to do. It's time to explore our options, ultimately aiming for the tail event that'll pull us out of this mess, where having a deal when Iran wouldn't even matter.
