# 2026-06-15

## Bill Maher's warning about AI

> Fight for humans and make sure we're not completely replaced, and you can't do it if you are hopelessly dependent on the thing that's replacing you. ... We emptied the kids' heads by letting them out of high school without knowing anything, and then what a perfect time for robots to come along and say, "No problem. I got you. I'm your brain now." That is one big, grand experiment we're running here. Can humans survive if we completely outsource our brains to something that does all our thinking?

[Real Time with Bill Maher: 6/6/2026](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/742515?episode=55844461357), [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=18c8dbaa06e31ab8ee7ec397f3d93765).

No only do we live in an underinformed society, but every phone now has a suck-up that seduces people into not thinking. Making decisions requires brainpower, and using one's brain is hard and uncomfortable (like using a muscle), so it's seductive to short-circuit the brain in day-to-day decisions. The trouble is that if we don't give the brain the exercise it needs precisely from these day-to-day decisions, it could atrophy even more than it has atrophied from the lack of stimulation by one's pursuit of knowledge (something our society stopped encouraging even before AI became popular). In a world where human knowledge and decision-making are becoming scarce, it would do one well to continue practicing such essential parts of the human experience.
