# 2026-06-16

## A company can survive a troubled CEO, and so a country can survive a troubled President

> Our current President just speaks out loud his internal monologue. You know what the internal monologue is, right? It's just that stream of thoughts that we all have pouring through our heads all the time and that we all edit. We edit our thoughts. We don't just fling all of our feces. We have a Strait of Hormuz between our brain and our mouth where we don't let everything through. But not the President of the United States.

[Real Time with Bill Maher: 6/13/2026](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/742515?episode=56124651114), [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=2681bc705ad8e66c6c1f564ba4fc1028).

What could go wrong? If you had the ability to read a person's thoughts, but you could only select one person, wouldn't you choose to listen in on the internal monologue of the President of the United States? Think of how privileged your position would be. But that's the problem with this analogy. It would only be a national security threat if this was asymmetric. As it stands, everyone hears what the President is thinking, whether they want to or not. And everyone knows this weakness of the President, so they work around it. No one tells him anything of import for fear (nay, certainty) of having it blurted out at the most inopportune moment. Yes, the man at the top is a poor fit for the job, but so are a lot of men at the top. We just work around them. The devil is in the details. Everything important is always done behind the scenes.

## Precision and creativity win over brute force

> Soft power is underrated and hard power is overrated.

[Pivot: 6/12/2026](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725?episode=56080609552), [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=d321e274962eaf23ca4aa5240ee42696).

The Iran Nuclear Deal of 2015 was negotiated after a series of exercises in diplomacy, not the least of which were economic sanctions. When the US elected a new President, who reversed course with Iran by switching the negotiating strategy to displays of military power, the world economy took a hit (the Iranians closed the Strait of Hormuz), and it's now very unlikely there's going to be any deal with Iran that's to any appreciable degree satisfactory for the US. Yet again, brawn loses over brain. Similarly, Russia regularly displays its military strength, shocking the world with its cruelty to the civilians of its nearby countries (most recently, Georgia, Syria, and Ukraine), but Ukraine has been able to contain its invasion, thanks, to a significant degree, to its use of drones. You don't hit your adversary with full force, you hit them with just enough force, but only where it matters. Precision and creativity win conflicts, not brute force.
