# [Pivot](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725?episode=51491224622): [3/10/2026](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=bbd4e5197941710920093f9e7695731d)

This episode of [Pivot](../../../2025/10/14/pivot.md) answered two questions about blood money.

## Why are businesses so slow to condemn abuses of power?

Because their job is to align themselves with the powerful, not speak truth to power. And yet, Scott doesn't understand why CEOs don't speak up against the regime.

> What I like to remind CEOs of is when they get stressed out about saying something or potentially offending shareholders, I'm like, _dude, you're already rich and you're gonna be dead soon._

It's because they don't want to risk tanking their company, along with all of its employees. It's not just about their own wealth, it's also about legacy. The legacy of a CEO is continued economic security of the people employed by their company. One wrong move against the powerful, and the company goes under. That's the sort of power we let our powerful yield. 

## How late-stage is our capitalism? 

Very late-stage. We're at a point where ethics goes out the window as long as there's money to be made.

> We've monetized healthcare in the United States, we've monetized rage with social media, and now we're monetizing male loneliness.

We've crossed the line where amateur pornography has become a commodity (OnlyFans). We've crossed the line where for some petty cash we've let our adversaries spread propaganda aimed at pushing the American society into a civil war (Facebook). We've crossed the line where we've taken the right to healthcare away from anyone who can't afford it (and we continue raising its prices). There don't appear to be many lines left to cross. 
