# [The Rachel Maddow Show](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/509873): [9/8/2025](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=587df63ffc2f7a941c04119666eba6ab)

This episode of [Rachel Maddow] answered two burning questions of the day.

1. TOC
{:toc}

[Rachel Maddow]: ../../../series/maddow.md

## Can a criminal write a book detailing his crimes and then sell it for profit? 

No, this would violate the Son of Sam law.

> If you participated in a horrible crime, you will never be rewarded for telling tales about that crime.

## What's the latest on the Trump-Epstein scandal?

> Epstein sold to Donald Trump a "girl," who is described as "fully depreciated" for $22500. What's that about? This of course comes after President Trump said just earlier this summer that the reason he had a falling out with his longtime friend Jeffrey Epstein after 15 years of friendship was because Epstein, in Trump's words, stole a young woman from him, one of Epstein's sex trafficking victims who Trump says Epstein stole from Trump's spa at Mar-a-Lago.

Rachel Maddow reminds her viewers that even though Trump is getting away with this (because he gets away with everything), this is not normal. This cannot be made precedent for anyone else to get away with.

> What in presidential history even approximates a scandal this disgusting? What in the history of the United States of America for anybody in any position of public trust approximates the level of repulsiveness that Donald Trump brings to the presidency with this trailing behind him like a snail trail?
