# [Real Time with Bill Maher](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/742515): [9/6/2025](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=124924eef906721386f94ff2ec408299)

This episode of [Real Time] answered two questions I didn't even know I had.

1. TOC
{:toc}

[Real Time]: ../../../series/real-time.md

## Can you get away with breaking societal norms, as long as you do it with confidence?

Yes, Trump is a living example of that.

> There were a lot of norms on just what politicians can do, can say that are not enforced by law. There's no law that says you can't insult the physical appearance of your rival or of a woman. You can't blatantly lie. They're propped up by the knowledge that you just don't do that. Why don't you do it? Well, everyone knows you don't do that. What he discovered was if you flout that in public and you live another day, then the norm is gone because the norm depended on everyone knowing that it was a norm. Then when he exploded it, it was gone.

Confidence trumps all societal norms. We value confidence over kindness, respect, and truth.

> In the past it was if you blatantly lie, you've killed your credibility forever. You've at least got to pretend that you yourself think that you're telling the truth. It's not clear that he actually believed it. But just by making the truth whatever he says and removing statements from the realm of things that you can fact-check, you can verify, just if the charismatic leader says it, that's good enough. That is a new norm that he established by getting away with what no previous politician, including conservative politicians, would dare.

## Is Prozac a gateway drug to fentanyl? 

Bill Maher seems to think so.

> I remember Arianna Huffington coming on our show the first year talking about Prozac. That was the issue that made her famous. She was right then, it's right now. We put kids on drugs way too early, way too often, and then we wonder why they're using street drugs when they're 20. Because they never knew what sobriety was.
