# [Real Time](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/742515?episode=49695900255): [2/7/2026](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=8215c7b26064ba1e6233869c3feaf478)

This episode of [Real Time](../../../2025/10/16/real-time.md) answered two questions about gambling in America.

## Why is gambling in the United States largely relegated to Native American reservations?

Because that was the path of least political resistance for Congress to pay reparations to the Native Americans for our government displacing them (and worse) in the past.

> In 1988, Congress okayed gambling on reservations as reparations to Native Americans, because what better way to make it up to the most spiritual people on earth than by giving them a piece of the sleaziest business ever.

The solution was far from ideal, but at least, it delivered quick results.

## What are the harms of gambling? 

Aside from the obvious (poor financial decision, addiction), it is also a way of life that surrenders one's control over their life by leaving it to chance.

> Gambling isn't just bad because you lose the rent. It's bad because it gives permission to stop believing that you control your destiny. But this is still America and you still do. When I was in college and wanted money, I didn't gamble, I got a job, okay? It was selling drugs. At least I wasn't just leaving my future to chance. That's not us. That's eastern culture.

Gambling is a gateway drug to an authoritarian regime. If how you live your life is already not up to you, there's nothing to give up when a strongman emerges. This kind of attitude is one of the reasons why eastern countries have succumbed to authoritarian control.

> In the Middle East, you can't say three words without someone responding, "If God wills it."

Easterners love their strongmen and their gambling.

> This is why Macau does three times the gambling business that Vegas does. It's why every movie with a foot chase through Chinatown ends up in a basement full of guys playing mahjong. It's why many Chinese restaurants have the word "luck" in their name. But that's not us. We're the "we don't accept fate, we make it" people.

# Next

* [Real Time with Bill Maher](../../../2025/10/16/real-time.md)
