# [Pivot](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725?episode=48113489809): [1/9/2026](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=9be13d14676b05b36ee009b041990ffd)

This episode of [Pivot](../../../2025/10/14/pivot.md) answered two questions about Trump's presidency.

## With Trump, are we living in unprecedented times?

The only unprecedented thing about Trump is that he's doing illegal things in the open, without trying to cover them up. American Presidents have done illegal things before, both personally and in their capacity as Presidents, often with impunity. Corruption has been done before. Insurrection attempts have been done before. Overthrows of governments in Latin America have been done before. Trump simply realized that it's not necessary to try to cover them up.

> All the Trump people really do is overt versions of things that the US has always done covertly.

Abuses of power against American citizens have been done before.

> If there's one thing we know how to do as Americans is scrutinize a video of a law enforcement-involved killing. I think we had a fair amount of practice at that.

## How does the Trump administration benefit from the killing of Renee Good by an ICE agent?

It has a chilling effect on his opposition. It sends a message to the people thinking of participating in peaceful protests that they shouldn't be putting themselves out on the streets in protest.

> You are in mortal danger now in these scenarios.

The Trump administration might just be able to use violence to scare Americans into submission to its newly established authoritarian regime.

> History shows, politics becomes a blood sport and nation's light begins to flicker.

So maybe we really are living through unprecedented times in the sense that this country is undergoing a regime change. 
