# [Pivot](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725?episode=51689647222): [3/13/2026](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=a6f63d9c3bebc2738d3b2e62907acad7)

This episode of [Pivot](../../../2025/10/14/pivot.md) answered a question about the AI apocalypse.

## Has AI devalued human expertise?

No, it has freed up the experts to come up with new ideas instead of having to constantly re-explain their old ideas to people. AI has simply taken away the job of answering prompts, the job of re-explaining old ideas. However, the relationship between experts creating knowledge and AI distributing it is only sustainable if AI companies compensate people for the ideas their chatbots use when responding to people.

> You can spend 50 years of your life professionally working your ass off staying late, starting in the mailroom at the Washington Post as you did, such that you have a voice, a reputation, a twist of phrase, an ability to string words together that compels people to action and provides insight. Then they can come in and just adopt that 50 years or piggyback on it.

AI is a machine that regurgitates an amalgam of old ideas, and by doing so, it _could_ free up human experts to focus on thinking up new ideas. If people prefer to get new ideas not from the source but instead from AI, then AI companies must trace them back to the source and pay those people for their new ideas. If AI companies don't do that and there are no competing sources of expertise that are viable for consumers, then there's no incentive for experts to continue advancing the frontier of human knowledge, and our civilization will just stagnate.
