# [Pivot](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725): [9/30/2025](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=e2e0fd74c05830ac9d538b5886dfa752)

In this episode of [Pivot](../../../2025/10/14/pivot.md), Scott Galloway answers the age-old question of whether to promote people from within or hire outsiders for leadership positions.

## Should managers have the expertise of the people they manage?

Yes, otherwise you will get the sort of manager who will make your development team waste their time on AI or whatever tech-bubble nonsense is currently trending, which will lead to the company amassing significant technical debt. However, domain expertise is not everything. A prospective manager must also have excellent leadership and management skills.

> When people are great at what they do, we keep promoting them until we find a position they're not great at. In other words, you promote them out of their competency.

If you're looking to hire a manager, start by giving your lead developer management assignments. If this person does well, promote them into the management position. Don't promote them on the assumption that they are so remarkable that they can learn to be a good manager while in the new role. Not everyone can step up to the challenge.

> _Look, this guy's a great bond trader. He or she can't manage people out of a fucking paper bag, right?_ So just keep them as a bond trader. Don't put them in charge of the fixed income department. And some people are just good at what they do and they end up being great managers.
