# [Pivot](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725?episode=52375056124): [3/24/2026](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=2709628544f62701e5165c48617286f0)

This episode of [Pivot](../../../2025/10/14/pivot.md) answered two questions about the vulnerabilities of our system.

## Why is it a bad idea to idolize or idealize individuals? 

Because this is how individuals amass power, which will allow them to make decisions that will have an outsized impact. People are flawed, and their decisions are often flawed as well. We don't want to allow them to constantly subject the whole world to their flaws. Why magnify the flaws of any one individual in this way?

> Should one man be able to accrete so much wealth and technical mastery that he or she can change the course of civilization and war? This is, we keep talking about the wisdom of crowds. The ignorance of the individual is really frightening.

Whether the Russians or the Ukrainians have satellite Internet during the course of their war is subject to the whims of Elon Musk. The economic security of everyone working for a large corporation is similarly a function of the behavior of its CEO. We are taught to design systems both without single points of failure and automating away the human error, and yet, when we unquestioningly defer to our leaders, we give in to the intersection of single point of failure and human error. Don't do it.

## Why do companies invest so much in lobbying? 

Because if your lobbyists could get legislators to pass laws that make it illegal not to own your product, your company will have a long period of prosperity ahead of it. Same if your lobbyists could get legislators' attention away from passing laws targeting the practices that unfairly benefit your company. Capital expenditures or artificial intelligence can't compete with that.

> Best ROI in history is not AI or CapEx, it's lobbying.

Medical insurance industry knew that when they lobbied Congress away from passing laws that would make it illegal for pharmaceutical benefit managers to impose contractual obligations on pharmacists that served against the interests of their customers, e.g., informing them that their drugs would cost less if they bought them out of pocket.
