# [Pivot](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725?episode=46453121851): [12/9/2025](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=d8f434c43543b499049ca56a64337d0c)

This episode of [Pivot](../../../2025/10/14/pivot.md) answered two questions about economics.

## What's Trump's economic foreign policy?

Start a trade war with China that will hurt the U.S. much more than it will hurt China. Stop sending aid to countries that need it (USAID) and redirect it to those that don't (Argentina, which already benefits from the U.S.-China trade war).

> Let's give a bunch of money to the Argentinians who the Chinese are now buying soybeans from.

Now he's also giving money to the farmers that have been hurt by his trade war. Band-aids upon band-aids on the economy he's bleeding dry with corruption and incompetence.

## Why is it a bad idea to concentrate wealth among the few? 

Wealth should be spread out among more people because that way, more people get to spend the money, reinvesting into the parts of the economy that more people need. When few people have all the money, more of it goes toward luxury goods (there's a lot left over after the basic necessities are met), but when many people have money, a larger percentage of it goes toward basic necessities, and the definition of a basic necessity expands. An infusion of cash into basic necessities makes them more affordable for everyone.

> Capital has been kicking the shit out of labor for 40 years and it's starting to hurt the economy 'cause the top 10% that owns all the shares is now responsible for 50% of the fucking consumer economy.
