# [The Rachel Maddow Show](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/509873): [9/22/2025. Kamala Harris](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=92b2c255b9e5a3e6a6c635562e9a31b4)

This episode of [Rachel Maddow] answered two questions I didn't even know I had.

[Rachel Maddow]: ../../../series/maddow.md

## Why is it important to encourage people? 

Kamala Harris had just won her first Senate race when Lawrence O'Donnell came up to her in a restaurant and urged her to run for President. With his encouragement, she decided to go for it. Joe Biden won that race, but she was picked to be his running mate. She was then the person to run against Trump. She went from a junior senator to one of the most high-profile people in politics in the span of a few years, thanks in part to the encouragement of the people around her, the first of which was Lawrence O'Donnell, Rachel Maddow notes from Kamala's book about her presidential campaign.

> The idea of not just joining the Senate, but then you telling her immediately, _no, now you're on the national stage, keep going, don't stop rising_, turned out to be a formative thing for her.

## Why did Lawrence O'Donnell encourage Kamala Harris to run for President after she had just won her first Senate race? 

He saw her as the next Obama. He, too, was a junior senator when he ran for President. He was a rising star. Lawrence thought Kamala was the female Obama.

> A black woman who could go all the way, who could go as far as Barack Obama.

Lawrence saw Obama-level potential in Kamala when he saw her speak.

> The first time someone brought me to see her speak somewhere, I saw that and I thought, _well, yeah, she could absolutely go all the way_.
