# [Pivot](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725): [9/9/2025](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=8c2a66190430326bc3b80bf17a95e937)

This episode of [Pivot] answered three questions I had about running and clawing back money from AI companies for the content they stole from you.

[Pivot]: ../../../series/pivot.md

## How to train an elite athlete? 

Long-distance running.

> The cohort that has the highest graduation rate of Navy Seals training is people who are like long distance runners, people who rode crew, water polo, because it's basically about training your mind to go another quarter, half a mile, even when you think you can't.

Don't just run, but track your every mile. If you don't track, you will not push yourself as hard.

> If you don't have a metric kind of tracking how fast you're running, you don't run that fast. You have a tendency to kind of slow down, like, _oh, this hurts_.

There's a story in _Freakonomics_ about how stationary bikers were trying to match their performance from the last training, but what they didn't know was that they were trying to match the sped-up version of their cycling. And yet, they still managed to catch up. It's all about convincing yourself you can do it.

> The human body is exceptional. And the confidence to break limits and go further faster than you ever thought possible is an incredible skill to have that you only get from that type of cardiovascular strain.

## How should AI companies compensate people whose work informs what their LLM's output?

> This industry needs to adopt some sort of similar construct to what musicians do.

A radio station keeps cue sheets recording every track that goes up on the air. They profit from the music they play, and with cue sheets, they know how to distribute the profits.

> You just track it. You played B-52 songs 1100 times. You have to send Warner Brothers or whoever is the publisher of the B-52's, you have to send them $1100 to a rights management group. The rights management group then sends out checks to everyone from Madonna to Luke Holmes, and that's how they make money.

AI companies need to create something like cue sheets for their outputs.

> All they need is a tracking mechanism that says, _okay, Kara's books informed us on this many queries. So she gets X amount of money, and we send it to a rights group who then distributes the payments_. This is a system they could easily prop up, but instead they pretend it's too difficult because they'd rather just steal it.

What the AI companies are doing now is the equivalent of playing music on the air, getting paid for it, and then keeping all the profits to themselves.

> These companies have committed IP theft.

The LLMs are trained on pirated content like Library Genesis.

> They have taken something that has economic value and they owe these authors.

If you put pirated music into your video and upload it on YouTube, its ContentID feature will put a copyright strike on your video, demonetize it, and/or redirect the money it earns to the rights holders for the music. It's time for ContentID for pirated books. Every AI output should be analyzed for plagiarism, and when such is detected, the AI company supplying the content should be compelled to compensate the source and/or fined for not citing their sources. This is also good for the information quality we get from LLMs. If the AI companies are not allowed to conceal their sources, then we will be able to verify the information for ourselves. The world where the source of information is just "trust the LLM" is not one where truth matters.

> We gotta get to a point where it's like, _okay, when your book comes out, when your TV show comes out, when your podcast comes out, we have a means of tracking what percentage of it in terms of nuance and context or direct data or direct quotes from this book have been used across all of our queries, and we're gonna give you a certain percentage of our profits and we're gonna figure out a mechanism for figuring out who gets what._

## Why should you not trust tech companies to pay you for your content?

Google crawled other websites but not so it could send the users of their search engine to those websites. No, Google created widgets out of the crawled content just so they could keep the users from leaving Google.

> The biggest mistake we made back then was to just let them crawl it, thinking it was gonna send us more traffic, and we'd serve them banner ads, and that just didn't work. 
