# [Pivot](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725): [8/19/2025. Abby Phillip](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=856f6badf469a668f9f4e5f4fd083f47)

This episode of [Pivot] answered two questions I didn't even know I had.

1. TOC
{:toc}

[Pivot]: ../../../series/pivot.md

## Should an interviewer rescue their guest from looking stupid?

No, it's more important to respect the rights of the guest to make a fool of themselves, Abby Phillip says.

> Even when I disagree with people, I respect their right to embarrass themselves on national television.

It's not the interviewer's job to help the guest out of something they brought on themselves. If the guest decides not to come back because of something they said on the air, it's on them, not the interviewer. Kara Swisher knows this. She conducts every interview like it's her last interview with the given guest.

## Is Internet trolling going to make Gavin Newsom the next President like it made Trump our current President?

No. It's true that Trump was the first Internet troll President, much in the same way that JFK was the first TV President or FDR was the first radio President. Kara Swisher wrote about this in _Burn Book_. If you master the new medium of the people, you get to lead them. However, Abby Phillip doesn't think that Gavin Newsom's aping of how Trump uses the Internet will translate into him becoming the next President.

> I don't think that your presidential chances are related to your social media clout.

You have to do something new and exciting to win the presidency, not chase old trends.
