# 2026-05-01

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos]: https://books.google.com/books?id=QVBcEQAAQBAJ

## Your toy bunny may be watching you

> With a few clicks, this popular home assistant toy was turned into a surveillance camera.

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos].

The proliferation of smart devices a cybersecurity nightmare. Any Internet-connected device with a sensor becomes a surveillance device once a hacker finds a way to intercept the data it transmits. If the sensor is a camera, the hacker has their eyes into your house.

## How long before black hats learn to crash cars through remote code execution?

> Hackers showed off a new technique they’d invented to control a car’s steering wheel, brakes and fuel gauge from a laptop.

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos].

The world saw a demo of a car control takeover at DEF CON. So the battle between black hats and cybersecurity experts is now on track to overtake yet another new playing field: vehicles zipping through our streets and freeways.

## Allison Nixon: video games aren't a waste of time

> She was exceedingly good at the patient and crafty style needed to extract gold from the frenetic and toxic chat rooms and forums. She credits her lurking skills to playing hundreds of hours of the computer game Eve Online, a sprawling space game that allows players to explore an enormous galaxy collecting resources and fighting off rival factions. The game encourages theft and double crossing. One way to sabotage enemies is to sneakily infiltrate their social guilds under false names to sow confusion or steal secrets. ‘It’s kind of remarkable how similar what I do now is to what I used to do back during my Eve Online days,’ Allison laughs.

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos].

Adults at the forefront of threat intelligence were video game enthusiasts in their childhood. Any persistent and challenging human activity leaves one with new, sometimes unexpectedly important skills. The game Eve Online trained a generation of cybercrime detectives who call themselves professional lurkers.

## Two kinds of top performers 

> The most skilled or the most reckless. You can make up for a lack of technical skill by being the loudest and most anarchistic.

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos].

Successful people are risk takers. By taking chances, risk takers allow luck to make up the difference between what they truly are (usually someone with unremarkable intelligence) and a rising star.

## Booters and stressers: attack as a service

> All you needed to do was pay some money – maybe $20 via a PayPal account – enter the IP address of the site or server you wanted to take out and press ‘go’. No skill needed at all. If you’re wondering why nothing was done to stop this burgeoning industry (which still exists today) it’s because booters/stressers can have legitimate purposes. They’re needed by web service developers to stress-test the robustness of their sites and apps. Developers need to have a way to know what kind of level of traffic they can sustain before they have problems or outages. These booter kids got away with selling their cybercrime services by having vague disclaimers – like ‘We bear no responsibility for how you use it’ – on their sites that feigned ignorance about what people were really doing with their stresser services.

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos].

Have you heard of software as a service? Or platform as a service? Black hats have their versions of those, too. There are entire industries built around attack types. The ransomware industry has built out quite the infrastructure between turnkey ransomware deployments and entire help centers walking the victims through ways of converting their cash to cryptocurrency so they could pay their attacker. The carder-casher industry is no less impressive. Is it any wonder that there is an industry built around DDOS attacks?

## Edgelord culture

> A desire to be more provocative and extreme than the next person.

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos].

Once attention seekers learn that they can get what they so desperately want by shocking others and that there are other people like them out there, what follows is a race to the bottom. They start offending people for clout. They don't just want to be edgy, every last one of them wants to rule over the rest, be the edgelord. Herein emerges a culture of trolls, a blight on our society. This is one of the many ways social media enables the worst of human instincts. Attention-seeking children never grow up. Instead, they are given the opportunity to drag down the rest of our society to their level.
