# 2026-05-05

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos]: https://books.google.com/books?id=QVBcEQAAQBAJ
[What Is Cancer?]: https://www.cancer.gov/about-cancer/understanding/what-is-cancer

## How the Vastaamo database got leaked by ransom_man

> The patient database was left directly exposed to the internet and unprotected for fifteen months. There was no firewall stopping people accessing it from any computer in the world. So, by using common internet scanning tools, anyone could have found it and attempted to break in. ... The private, personal and sensitive details of 33,000 therapy patients.

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos].

Script kiddies from all over (like ransom_man) regularly check Shodan for web services with misconfigured access. The administrators for such services often either never bother to correctly restrict public access to them or simply lack the knowledge of how to do it or (the awareness of the danger they're putting their data in by not doing it). If anyone off the Internet can access your data, it's likely that someone will, and they will probably do so for a malicious purpose. Misconfiguring access to private data is like forgetting to lock the doors to your house, except worse. Not many criminals will be brazen enough to try a lock on a physical door to see if it's unlocked. And yet, the digital equivalent of this happens on the Internet every day.

## To find a cure, first find an illness-sustaining process that can be turned off without harming the body

> Many times, cancer cells rely so heavily on these abnormal behaviors that they can’t survive without them. Researchers have taken advantage of this fact, developing therapies that target the abnormal features of cancer cells. For example, some cancer therapies prevent blood vessels from growing toward tumors, essentially starving the tumor of needed nutrients.

[What Is Cancer?]

If the illness relies on a process that doesn't normally occur in the body, therein lies its weakness. It's possible that this process can be targeted in a way that doesn't harm the body. If this process is not needed by the body and turning it off has no side effects, then that's the cure. Penicillin disrupts the cell wall, but because human cells don't have cell walls, it's among the safest drugs we can take while it is also deadly to bacteria. It is an effective cure against many bacterial infections. Integrase inhibitors prevent insertion of genetic material into the DNA, but because human cells don't do that, they're safer for humans than they are for retroviruses, many of which can only survive long-term in the human body integrated into its DNA. And so angiogenesis inhibitors are safer for human tissues than they are for tumors because human cell lines don't need novel blood vessels to develop to sustain them, but cancers do. 
