# 2026-05-08

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos]: https://books.google.com/books?id=QVBcEQAAQBAJ

## Vastaamo CEO Ville Tapio says the database with patient mental health records got leaked because his IT left it accessible to the Internet

> It’s still not known how or why the database was left open to the internet and so poorly protected, but Tapio blames his IT team for altering the security settings at some point from around November 2017 until March 2019. He assumes it was to make it easier for them to get in and carry out tasks remotely from home.

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos].

The weakest link in any organization's security is personnel. Instead of adding the networks of the remote workers to the allowlist (e.g., /32), they may leave it exposed to 0.0.0.0/0, i.e., all the networks on the Internet. That way, no matter how much the remote worker's IP address changes, they will still be able to access the database without having to modify its allowlist. But that's also how attackers breach firewalls. 0.0.0.0/0 covers every network: all the remote workers and also all the possible attackers. Performing an allowlist update for every network change is a small price to pay to keep malicious actors out of it.

## Company security audits should be ongoing

> These red flags should have been picked up by Vastaamo’s IT team, and would have been spotted easily by an external auditor had the company paid one to come and give the firm a once over. Tapio says he did this in 2017 – before the database security was changed.

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos].

Following a security audit commissioned by Ville Tapio (the CEO), the company IT relaxes its firewall to the point where a script kiddie discovers it and beaches the database of private patient records. The lesson: have ongoing security audits.

## Vastaamo: a security beach won't sink a company, but poor handling of it will

> The company took a thundering hit when ransom_man struck but arguably it was the unearthed security lapses and the way the firm handled the fallout that delivered the killer blows.

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos].

Any failure can be turned around if one learns from it and takes corrective action. Even when private patient data leaks on the Internet at the fault of one company, that company can still rebuild its reputation if it overcorrects with full transparency. Try to cover it up, and it's game over.
