# 2026-05-10

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos]: https://books.google.com/books?id=QVBcEQAAQBAJ

## Trial by judge vs. trial by jury

> In Finland almost all cases are decided upon by judges and not a jury.

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos].

Trials by judge are the norm in some countries. Even in America, a person has the right to request a trial by judge. Whatever makes one believe the odds are in their favor.

## Julius Kivimäki: when going to trial, prepare to fight the strawman

> He had an idea for a cybersecurity business called Scanifi which he started setting up with a friend. It would scan the internet for historic vulnerabilities and sell the information to insurance companies. The prosecution used this information as a weapon against him, arguing that it was precisely a tool like Scanifi that might have helped him find the unsecured Vastaamo database.

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos].

Kivimäki leaked a database with private medical data of the clients of a company specializing in mental health, which was both a serious crime and a cruel thing to do to his fellow man. However, much of this person's legitimate interest in cybersecurity was not criminal and should never have been used to strengthen the case against him. When one goes to court, one has to be prepared to shut down allegations that may look criminal-adjacent but are not. This is why we sometimes hear defense lawyers yell "objection!" to strike things off the record over being unrelated to the case, but apparently, they're not doing it enough.

## What is salacious to an edgelord?

> ransom_man had searched the patient notes in Finnish for terms like ‘famous’, ‘police’, ‘paedophilia’ and ‘rape fantasy’. The words matched the types of notes he released online in the initial batches.

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos].

When a script kiddie discovers a database of notes written by mental health specialists about their clients, how do they decide which snippets to choose to promote their leak on the forums? Of course, they choose the most salacious stuff. What do edgelords consider to be the most salacious? Celebrity gossip and sexual crimes, apparently.
