# 2026-05-13

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos]: https://books.google.com/books?id=QVBcEQAAQBAJ
[Uncanny Valley]: https://books.google.com/books?id=5fqTDwAAQBAJ

## Multi-factor fatigue: how cybercriminals exhaust their targets into inadvertently approving malicious authentication requests

> If that person received their prompt codes via an app on their phone, Lapsus$ would just repeatedly try to log in over and over again for hours until that person became fatigued by the multiple requests and clicked accept. And they tended to carry out these attacks late at night to increase the chances of an employee giving in. It worked many times.

[Ctrl + Alt + Chaos].

MFA is a significant improvement over merely using a username/password pair for logging in. Coupling something you know (the password) with something you have (a physical device) reduces the chances of an account takeover. But some hackers have found ways of tricking the system into bypassing the second requirement. How does one prove to be in possession of a physical device one doesn't actually have? The hacker group Lapsus$ used basic psychology. If they couldn't control the device, they could control the person operating said device by spamming them with push notifications so hard that they would invariably slip up and press on one of them. 

## SpotHero

> A website that allowed people to rent out their unused driveways raised four million dollars from elite firms on Sand Hill Road.

[Uncanny Valley].

What else would you expect from a system that incentivizes people (handsomely!) to create and promote websites and apps? And what better way is there to get someone to download a new app than to give them money for doing it? Or, in the case of SpotHero and the like, to monetize some previously unmonetized facet of their life, regardless of how banal it may be?
