# 2026-05-15

[Modern Operating Systems]: https://www.google.com/books/edition/Modern_Operating_Systems_Global_Edition/cHa2EAAAQBAJ

## Manufacturing demand by exploiting human vulnerabilities

> The most profitable businesses in the world tap into one thing, and that is a flaw in our instincts. We're desperate for affirmation, we're desperate for free gaming, we're desperate for opportunities to procreate. So we buy Ferraris, we go on Instagram, and we gamble. The highest margin products in the world tap into a flaw in our instincts.

[Pivot: 4/17/2026](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725?episode=53552119039), [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=d7a20480ab5f6d4297711b647a5daada).

Like any complex system, humans can be hacked. When the goal is to separate humans from their money, large corporations induce us to assign worth to worthless things. That's how many of them have become large corporations in the first place. Meanwhile, we give in to manufactured demand. We buy things we don't need just because that's what everybody else does. We think these things make us attractive to others. We are made to think we can outsmart the house. But the house always wins. It doesn't matter if the product is useful as long as it's addictive.

## Software bugs are receptors of exploits

> When Elinor discovers a vulnerability in Carolyn’s software, she has to feed that software with exactly the right bytes to trigger the bug. A bug-triggering input like this is usually called an exploit. Often, successful exploits allow attackers to take full control of the computer.

[Modern Operating Systems], ch.9.

One man's bug is another man's feature, especially if they're adversaries. An attacker's exploit relies on a bug in the software of their target. Once a bug is patched, the attacker needs to come up with a new exploit.

## Viruses, worms, and Trojans

> We refer to malware that infects computers by injecting itself into other (often executable) files as a virus. In other words, a virus needs another program and typically some form of user interaction to propagate. For instance, the user should click on an attachment to get infected. In contrast, a worm is self-propelled. It will propagate regardless of what the user does. Well-known worms in the past would randomly scan IP addresses on the Internet to see if they found a machine with vulnerable software, and if so infect it, rinse, and repeat. A Trojan, or Trojan horse, is malware that is hidden in something that looks legitimate and/or useful. By repackaging popular but expensive software (like a game or a word processor) and offering it for free on the Internet, the attackers get users to install it themselves.

[Modern Operating Systems], ch.9.

Developers often urge users who download their software to make sure the checksums of what they've downloaded match the developer's checksums. If they don't match, the software might have gotten infected with a virus somewhere along the way (or it might be a Trojan). Cybercriminals are always looking for easy ways to get to your sensitive data, and this is one such way. A worm is another: that's a script that finds unsecured or weakly secured networks and compromises them in bulk. The Internet is an adversarial environment. Stay safe out there.

## The principle of economy of mechanism

> Complex systems always have more bugs than simple systems. Moreover, users may not understand them well and use them in a wrong or insecure way. ... Simplicity also helps to minimize the attack surface (all the points where an attacker may interact with the system to try to compromise it). A system that offers a large set of functions to untrusted users, each implemented by many lines of code, has a large attack surface. If a function is not really needed, leave it out.

[Modern Operating Systems], sec.9.1.2.

The more code you have in a program, the buggier you should expect the program to be, and the more vulnerable it is to attacks. How many of those bugs can be exploited by attackers to discover a path to the sensitive data of your users? It's best to keep the code simple and minimal.

## Eliminating side channels with the principle of least common mechanism

> If we have a choice between implementing a file system routine in the operating system where its global variables are shared by all users, or in a user space library which, to all intents and purposes, is private to the user process, we should opt for the latter. The shared data in the operating system may otherwise serve as an information path between different users.

[Modern Operating Systems], sec.9.1.2.

The more a component is shared, the harder it is to modify said component. The stakes are higher the more a component propagates into the system. A bug introduced to a highly shared component may affect the larger system in a disproportionate way. A scenario is conceivable where such a bug is exploitable in a way that allows the attacker to retrieve sensitive data from a part of the system that would otherwise be sealed off from them (the import of the compromised component by the sensitive system module breaks the seal).

## Kerckhoffs’ principle of open design

> A cryptosystem should be secure even if everything about the system, except the key, is public knowledge. In other words, do not rely on ‘‘security by obscurity,’’ but assume that the adversary immediately gains total familiarity with your system and knows the encryption and decryption algorithms. In modern terms, it means you should assume the enemy has the source code to the security system. Even better, you should publish it yourself to avoid fooling yourself into thinking it is secret. It is probably not.

[Modern Operating Systems], sec.9.1.2.

Obscurity of mechanism could probably add a layer of protection (and we want as many layers as possible to make it not worth it for the attacker to choose our system for compromise), but it is by far the thinnest layer of all. If an attacker monitors any system long enough, they may be able to completely deduce the mechanism by which it's protected. To remain secure, said mechanism must involve a set of credentials that cannot be easily deduced or discovered. That way, even if the attacker knows the mechanism behind gaining access to the system, they won't be able to actually gain access to it without providing it the exact secret input it expects.

## Instant vs. delayed gratification

> Everything is a tradeoff between present happiness and future happiness. ... When you have the ice cream, you're happy in the present. And you are going to pay a price in the future.

[Real Time with Bill Maher: 4/11/2026](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/742515?episode=53294584919), [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=141e231a0c97f32ca36235dbda2e1c4c).

Delayed gratification is a powerful force. It's how goals get accomplished. Instant gratification, on the other hand, forms destructive habits.
