# 2026-05-16

[Modern Operating Systems]: https://www.google.com/books/edition/Modern_Operating_Systems_Global_Edition/cHa2EAAAQBAJ

## John Draper aka Captain Crunch: the phone phreaking pioneer

> He discovered that the toy whistle in a package of Cap’n Crunch cereals emitted a tone of 2600 Hz, which happened to be the exact frequency used by AT&T to authorize its (then expensive) long distance calls.

[Modern Operating Systems], sec.9.1.5.

Exploitable bugs can be discovered in the most unexpected places. 

## Early days of computers: the Wild West for aspiring hackers

> Cracking computer systems was all about showing your friends how clever you were (and the authors will neither confirm nor deny rumors that they engaged in such activities in their younger days).

[Modern Operating Systems], sec.9.1.5.

Success comes after a long, arduous journey of trial and error. The most successful are those who are unabashedly unafraid to experiment, even when their experiments could, on occasion, break the norms or even laws. The founders of Apple were phone phreakers. Many people who became successful IT professionals cut their teeth on pushing computers into doing things that wandered into the gray and sometimes not-so-gray areas of criminality. 

## Getting mad vs. getting even

> A disgruntled ex-employee of a sewage system installation company was not amused when the Maroochy Shire Council turned down his job application and he decided not to get mad, but to get even. He took control of the sewage system and caused a million liters of raw sewage to spill into the parks, rivers and coastal waters.

[Modern Operating Systems], sec.9.1.5.

Some people live with anger. Others redirect it to constructive or destructive pursuits. Revenge is a destructive way to channel anger. It's better to tap into the anger to take control of your life so you can build it out in such a way that you don't have to get angry as much. Living well is the best revenge.

## Could peace in the Middle East be bought with money?

> Take MBS's big buddy Jared Kushner, who, while he's America's negotiator in the wars going on in the Middle East, he also has billion-dollar business deals going with the Saudis and Qatar and the UAE. ... Do I hate it that the top dog in Islam is bros with a Jew? I don't. I think it's great progress that the Arabs rather bribe Jews than kill them.

[Real Time with Bill Maher: 4/11/2026](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/742515?episode=53294584919), [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=141e231a0c97f32ca36235dbda2e1c4c).

Three steps forward, two steps back. In our increasingly globalized world propped up by trade, Jews and Muslims could finally put aside their differences and start tolerating each other if for no other reason than to participate effectively in the global economy. However, that same system incentivizes bribery and corruption, and regulation is always slow to catch up, so we could only hope to replace senseless violence with senseless greed. Despite great progress that's already been done in this conversion of vices, there are still regions of the Middle East ravaged by senseless violence. Its perpetrators are yet to be seduced by the money they could be making off of each other should they just put away their weapons.
