# 2026-05-18

## An authoritarian is a boundlessly selfish taker

> Like a proverbial goldfish, guys like these grow to fit the size of their bowl, which means the more they have to work with in terms of authoritarian power they can consolidate to themselves, the more resources they have at their disposal to use for nefarious authoritarian purposes, the more repressive and monstrous they can be.

[The Rachel Maddow Show: 5/12/2026](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/509873?episode=54808277441), [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=86057fefcfed17a98391a8cf4914ac5f).

There's no limit to how much an authoritarian will take from his people. That's actually the part of his character that got him to the top. The world doesn't just hand anyone power and wealth. One has to take it from the world. The biggest takers are the heads of state. Theoretically, this doesn't apply to the states where the top job is defined by competing branches to be about serving the people, but even some states with checks and balances have been sliding toward authoritarianism lately. Democracy isn't automatic; shooing thieves away from the nation's purse is hard work, and it happens at the ballot box.

## Why it's become fashionable to call someone a fascist

> Some of it, I think, comes down to a failure to be able to define the politics of our own times. We don't have, like, an adequate language for what's happening in the world at the moment. So we're reaching for this language at a time, which is, in a lot of cases, the language of the mid-20th century. ... The term has lost its meaning, and in using it, it's just become a sort of lazy term of generic abuse.

[Overtime with Bill Maher: May 15, 2026](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hCWB5cnJmy0), [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=020a083955f8e55b19dff694e03c5cf9).

Here, historian Dan Jones explains that people nowadays reach for the word _fascist_ because the word they're looking for is undefined and _fascist_ sounds bad, given its history. So, when you hear someone say that something is fascist, what they might actually mean is that they think that what's being proposed is such a bad idea that future historians will have a word for it that's in the same general category as the word _fascist_.
