# 2026-05-21

[Metastatic Cancer]: https://www.cancer.gov/types/metastatic-cancer

## A malignant tumor invades the organism by first invading the circulatory tissues

> Cancer cells spread through the body in a series of steps. These steps include: growing into, or invading, nearby normal tissue; moving through the walls of nearby lymph nodes or blood vessels; traveling through the lymphatic system and bloodstream to other parts of the body stopping in small blood vessels at a distant location, invading the blood vessel walls, and moving into the surrounding tissue; growing in this tissue until a tiny tumor forms.

[Metastatic Cancer].

Of all the tissues that a malignant tumor invades, the most damaging is its invasion of the circulatory systems (lymph nodes and blood vessels). These tissues give the tumor access to the entire organism. The cells that have chipped off the primary tumor are carried alongside lymph or blood into other parts of the body where they form metastates (secondary tumors). Metastatic cancer is harder to treat and carries a poorer prognosis. 

## Men build things out of childbearing envy

> Men can't have children. And this is a version of children. Like they're creating a being. Like they're creating and shaping a being in a way that they want to, with control.

[Pivot: 5/15/2026](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725?episode=54728084249), [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=15bf48b439f5ddb1026f0f62a3576f7d).

Men seem to be more interested in things than in people. There are significantly more men than women in construction and engineering. Kara Swisher thinks it's because men can't have children but still want to participate in the act of creation. Their creations are things, not living beings.
