# 2026-05-23

[Modern Operating Systems]: https://www.google.com/books/edition/Modern_Operating_Systems_Global_Edition/cHa2EAAAQBAJ
[The Devil's Dictionary]: https://www.gutenberg.org/files/972/972-h/972-h.htm

## Public-key cryptography

> Publish your public key and everyone can use it and be sure that you alone can read the message.

[Modern Operating Systems], sec.9.3.2.

In RSA and other public-key systems, encryption is public, fast, and simple, while decryption is private, slow, and computationally intensive. The difference in the computational intensity between encryption and decryption in public-key systems is like the difference between computing the square of a number (multiplying two numbers together) and computing the square root of a number. The reverse operations are not symmetrical in their computational complexity. The encryption in public-key systems uses a public key while the decryption uses a secret private key. Computing the private key from the public key and the encrypted message is thought to be computationally infeasible.

## The Devil's Dictionary's audience

> Enlightened souls who prefer dry wines to sweet, sense to sentiment, wit to humor and clean English to slang.

[The Devil's Dictionary], Preface.

Herein lies a lesson: begin your thesis by defining your audience. This is an opportunity to suck up to them. Butter them up. Prime them to like what they're reading. What better way to do that than by giving them a special distinction right off the bat?

## Abasement

> A decent and customary mental attitude in the presence of wealth or power. Peculiarly appropriate in an employee when addressing an employer.

[The Devil's Dictionary], Abasement.

Why is the book containing this definition called The Devil's Dictionary? Probably for the same reason the subreddit for spotting Satan in the wild is named Found Satan. The Devil's Dictionary gives an aspiring Satan ideas for sabotaging the unsuspecting. If someone doesn't know the word listed and then accepts the definition given here as the true definition, the person who's passed this definition onto them will sit idly by, sip tea, and watch the world burn. The above definition would fit the words _deference_ or _respect_ at best and _servility_ or _obsequiousness_ at worst. Just imagine an intern naively putting the sentence like "treat your superiors with abasement" into a code of ethics they were tasked to write (exactly the sort of task delegated to the most junior of workers.

## Be your own financial advisor

> One of the greatest grips, I believe, legal grips in corporate history was the financial advisor. ... If you added up all alternative investments and hedge fund returns for the last 50 years, they have underperformed the S&P by the amount of their fees. ... Over the medium and long-term, they all underperform the market by their fees.

[Pivot: 5/8/2026](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725?episode=54380652635), [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=bf5215e43b7d62366d04ea487025e445).

Listen to Scott Galloway. If you're fortunate enough to have disposable income, the smartest thing to do is to invest it back into the economy and watch your wealth compound. The second smartest thing to do is to pay a financial advisor to do this for you. The difference between these two approaches is your financial advisor's wage. In this way, part of your disposable income is paying for a service you could do yourself, but perhaps, it is better that way. It's one fewer unemployed person who also serves as a commercial for investing money into the market. Perhaps, this way the economy benefits from your wealth slightly more for the cost of you sharing some of its spoils. And why not share? It's disposable income anyway. It's meant to be shared. So maybe don't be your own financial advisor.

## Despite much evidence to the contrary, Trump does not have Tourette's

> No message has ever entered his head without being delivered through his lips.

[Last Week Tonight](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Last_Week_Tonight_with_John_Oliver_episodes): September 21, 2025, [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=5d05cbb0e91542ae7fefd3838da8c1fd).

Nowhere is the line between benign and pathological as blurry as in psychology. Many people have intrusive thoughts that make them question whether they've left the stove on, but few people have such thoughts consume their lives, as in obsessive-compulsive disorder. Similarly, many, like Trump, think out loud in a narcissistic way, but few have uncontrollable tics that truly disrupt their lives, as in Tourette's syndrome.
