# 2026-05-25

[Darknet Diaries. Ep 172: SuperBox]: https://darknetdiaries.com/transcript/172/
[Cunk On Britain, Episode 1 - Beginnings]: https://www.comedy.co.uk/tv/cunk_on/episodes/1/1/

## The exponential nature of history

> If you look at the human history, pre-history, as a year and so New Year's Day is where humans start to use fire, and shape stone tools and this year is the last split second before midnight at the other end of the year, then we're in the old Stone Age until about 3pm on the 31st of December.

[Cunk On Britain, Episode 1 - Beginnings], [transcript](https://www.springfieldspringfield.co.uk/view_episode_scripts.php?tv-show=cunk-on-britain-2018&episode=s01e01).

Ronald Hutton gives us the sense of just how much of human history is pre-history. It took our species much longer to learn to learn to use fire for conquest than for the descendants of the first conquerors to fashion it into electricity. The first step appears negligible in complexity compared to the second whereas it is the second step that took negligible time compared to the first. The course of history has always been explosive: the progress on any given innovation appears glacial at first until everything happens seemingly all at once.

## Hypothesis: before the Big Bang time flowed in the opposite direction

> The Big Bang created the universe in one mad explosion that was probably deafening, although, luckily, ears didn't exist yet.

[Cunk On Britain, Episode 1 - Beginnings], [transcript](https://www.springfieldspringfield.co.uk/view_episode_scripts.php?tv-show=cunk-on-britain-2018&episode=s01e01).

The Big Bang is the reverse of how history typically unfolds. Typically, we see slow progress along any given dimension until all the necessary conditions align just right, and then everything happens instantaneously, an explosion. Maybe time in our universe will just continue running backwards, slowing down as it goes, until it completely stops, at which point it will reverse and then flow toward another Big Bang. Maybe then the process repeats back and forth over and over like a boomerang. And this is how ignorance gives way to speculation.

## SuperBox: spying through impersonation

> This thing would ask, ‘who has this IP?’ and when the device with that IP would respond, then it would just continually ask again and again, thousands of times, flooding it with ARP requests until that device would get overwhelmed and go offline, which would then allow this SuperBox to pose as that device. It would change its own IP and MAC address to match that thing it just took down, which is such a wild attack to knock out other things and then pose as them to see if they are communicating with anything more juicy.

[Darknet Diaries. Ep 172: SuperBox].

Denial-of-service attacks aim at disconnecting a given device from the network, making it appear offline. Sometimes the purpose is to cause an outage and disrupt a business. Other times, it's to knock a device (e.g., a wireless access point) off a congested channel so your device takes its place thereby conquering more of the communication medium, a limited resource. Sometimes an attacker knocks a device off not to reduce interference but to impersonate it. This was the reason SuperBox was running denial-of-service attacks on hosts on its local network. It would knock the device off the network and then capture the traffic the device would've received had it not been knocked off. A clever sort of spyware.

## Bluetooth guestbooks

> To improve my home defence strategy, I recently got a Bluetooth antenna which is just scanning for what Bluetooth devices are near my home, and it records it. My theory is that if someone ever breaks into my home, I’ll pull up the logs to see what Bluetooth devices were in range at that point and try to see if they ever visited before to try to figure out who it was.

[Darknet Diaries. Ep 172: SuperBox].

You are what you wear, in the sense that wearable Bluetooth devices can identify who you are to anyone scanning for Bluetooth devices nearby. Police officers will ask anyone with doorbell cameras pointing at the scene of the crime to hand over the footage, so wouldn't it be even more help to the police if the same devices also logged every Bluetooth device that has come near it? Of course, this might be considered problematic from the point of view of privacy, so we probably won't be seeing this feature added to doorbell cameras. Bluetooth devices won't tell you whose guestbook they sign; they just do it.
