# 2026-05-26

[Modern Operating Systems]: https://www.google.com/books/edition/Modern_Operating_Systems_Global_Edition/cHa2EAAAQBAJ
[The Devil's Dictionary]: https://www.gutenberg.org/files/972/972-h/972-h.htm
[Cunk On Britain, Episode 1 - Beginnings]: https://www.comedy.co.uk/tv/cunk_on/episodes/1/1/

## Waiting out the dinosaurs to create a civilization

> Pangea was full of Dinosaur, a race of Godzilla monsters so scary, normal human beings didn't dare exist until they'd all gone.

[Cunk On Britain, Episode 1 - Beginnings], [transcript](https://www.springfieldspringfield.co.uk/view_episode_scripts.php?tv-show=cunk-on-britain-2018&episode=s01e01).

Nothing comes into existence from willpower. Everything comes into existence when the right set of conditions is met. So, don't try to make something happen by wrestling with conditions that are adversarial for it. Simply, go with the flow and let it take you to the space where all the conditions are already met for whatever it is you are trying to make happen. If you want to make progress in your field, find a space that won't constrain it. And if you want a civilization, wait for the dinosaurs to be wiped out.

## Hacking by trying the default password works more often than you'd think

> The Stuxnet attack on an Iranian nuclear facility made good use of the fact that the Siemens computers controlling the centrifuges used a default password.

[Modern Operating Systems], sec.9.4.1.

When you hear about a sophisticated and scary cyberattack on the news and decide to learn more about how it happened, you may just find that the victim never bothered to change the manufacturer's default password on its devices, so pretty much anyone could breach them. Sometimes, what makes an elite government hacking group is simply a permission to do the hacking.

## The Republic-monarchy boomerang

> An absolute monarchy is one in which the sovereign does as he pleases so long as he pleases the assassins. Not many absolute monarchies are left, most of them having been replaced by limited monarchies, where the sovereign's power for evil (and for good) is greatly curtailed, and by republics, which are governed by chance.

[The Devil's Dictionary], Absolute.

Sometimes, republics chance into electing an authoritarian, or perhaps, one with such tendencies simply exploits the weak guardrails to grab power. That's how monarchies are born, but, since the human civilization has finally come to learn better, such monarchies don't last long: the most outspoken of the governed work hard at weakening them. And so it's a constant dance between democracy and authoritarianism.

## Gender stereotypes as a side effect of patriarchy

> To men a man is but a mind. Who cares what face he carries or what form he wears? But woman's body is the woman.

[The Devil's Dictionary], Absent.

Gender stereotypes are a side effect of the one-sided view of the world: man's. Because this view was so dominant for so long, these stereotypes have become engendered. A woman must accomplish extraordinary things to be taken seriously whereas a man is taken seriously by default.

## Deriving pleasure from abstaining from a pleasure

> ABSTAINER, n. A weak person who yields to the temptation of denying himself a pleasure. ... Said a man to a crapulent youth:  "I thought you a total abstainer, my son." "So I am, so I am," said the scapegrace caught—"But not, sir, a bigoted one."

[The Devil's Dictionary].

One can derive pleasure from life by denying oneself life's pleasures. That is, one can revel in one's superiority over their decision to abstain. Or, one can simply just go for life's pleasures. Either way, if you have gotten lucky enough in life to have access to something pleasurable, it will give you pleasure regardless of whether you choose to go for it or not.
