# 2026-05-27

[Enshittification]: https://books.google.com/books?id=eyc4EQAAQBAJ

## The Internet has been around long enough to see itself become the villain

> The platform has emerged as the endemic form of online enterprise, which is weird, because another word for platform is middleman. If you’re old enough to remember the early excitement about the coming digital age, you’ll recall how enthusiastic we were about the prospect of disintermediation—that is, cutting out the middleman.

[Enshittification].

You either die a hero, or you live long enough to see yourself become the villain. If a technology is around long enough, it eventually morphs into what it set out to challenge at its creation. It goes through the disruption phase, which prioritizes disruptive features, and then it goes through the incumbency phase, which brings out incumbent behaviors. Every disruptor becomes an incumbent. Every new generation promises change, and for a short time, there really is change. But then, there's complacency, stagnation, and regression back to where everything started. History repeats itself every time.

## With social media, we're back to pre-cable TV

> Five giant websites, each filled with screenshots of the other four.

[Enshittification].

For a time, the Internet was an exciting place full of artisanally crafted websites expressing fresh ideas in creative ways, frequented by geeky web surfers. It had forums and message boards that prompted in-depth discussions and connected people in meaningful ways. And then, all that got replaced with the Internet equivalent of five broadcast channels, each showing reruns of what you've already seen on the others.
