# 2026-05-28

[Cunk On Britain, Episode 1 - Beginnings]: https://www.comedy.co.uk/tv/cunk_on/episodes/1/1/
[The Devil's Dictionary]: https://www.gutenberg.org/files/972/972-h/972-h.htm

## Approach life academically

> ABSURDITY, n. A statement or belief manifestly inconsistent with one's own opinion.

[The Devil's Dictionary].

Any individual human has seen only a tiny portion of the world and experienced an insignificant fraction of everything there is to experience. At best, our understanding of the world is incomplete. And yet, when confronted with something that doesn't conform to their narrow worldview, people tend to dismiss it rather than learning from it. That's how we got to be so narrow-minded in the first place. It's better to approach life academically. If you notice that you haven't heard something you've disagreed with in a long time, you must be in an echo chamber, and it's time to get out of it. Explore more of the world. The more you know, the more interesting your life will be.

## The first bullshitters were lawyers

> ACCOMPLICE, n. One associated with another in a crime, having guilty knowledge and complicity, as an attorney who defends a criminal, knowing him guilty. This view of the attorney's position in the matter has not hitherto commanded the assent of attorneys, no one having offered them a fee for assenting.

[The Devil's Dictionary].

Ah, the old times and their lawyer jokes. Don't you miss the world before middle managers, financiers, and business executives when the only bullshitters were lawyers? When the only way to spend one's life bullshitting was to first sink years into learning legalese so one could use it to baffle the judge and jury into interpreting the law in a way that would benefit either the plaintiff or the defendant, whichever has more money?

## Stop drinking alcohol and eating bread. It's not the Middle Ages anymore.

> The water was filthy, so everyone drank beer, and the only thing to eat was bread. It was a particularly challenging time for the gluten-intolerant. But, luckily, nobody was yet middle class, so they just put up with it.

[Cunk On Britain, Episode 1 - Beginnings], [transcript](https://www.springfieldspringfield.co.uk/view_episode_scripts.php?tv-show=cunk-on-britain-2018&episode=s01e01).

Alcohol and bread are medieval. They were last-ditch efforts to keep people alive through tough times. When there's no other food and no clean water, bread and alcohol will do. But the times have changed. And yet, it's tough to break out of old habits, no matter how unnecessary and counterproductive they are. Humans feel powerless to break the cycle of tradition. But the sooner you do it, the less damage it will do to your life.

## Save the periodicals

> We don't know a huge amount about what actually happened during the Dark Ages because the Romans had taken the last pens with them.

[Cunk On Britain, Episode 1 - Beginnings], [transcript](https://www.springfieldspringfield.co.uk/view_episode_scripts.php?tv-show=cunk-on-britain-2018&episode=s01e01).

You know times are tough when no one can get around to writing about them in the moment. The time and ability to document one's life is a luxury. The existence of periodicals (papers of record, local papers, academic journals) is evidence that times could be tougher. Don't let them disappear.
