# 2026-05-29

[Enshittification]: https://books.google.com/books?id=eyc4EQAAQBAJ

## Enshittification is a gradual shifting of corporate priorities made possible by the human tendency to get addicted to products

> First, platforms are good to their users. Then they abuse their users to make things better for their business customers. Next, they abuse those business customers to claw back all the value for themselves. Finally, they have become a giant pile of shit.

[Enshittification].

In the platform era of the Internet, you initially need to be so good to users that you addict them to your product. This way they can't leave when you start abusing them. And abusing them is a necessary part of your business plan when you shift your priorities away from them and toward your business users. The final part of your business roadmap is to shift your priorities away from all your users, business and otherwise, toward yourself. The new Internet economy hopelessly selfish.

## You can get ED medication without a prescription from a gas station. Don't do it.

> Someone who can't get Cialis from their doctor for good reason might turn to these supplements without knowing they're about to get a mega dose of it. One pill was found to contain 14 times the amount of active ingredient contained in a Cialis pill. Meanwhile, others were found to include dyes and filler, like blue printer ink and drywall.

[Last Week Tonight](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Last_Week_Tonight_with_John_Oliver_episodes): May 3, 2026, [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=b444e72908691bba4e5b88442d7fb59f).

The FDA issues a public service announcement identifying several products readily available at a local gas station as containing dangerous doses of medications that effectively treat erectile dysfunction. When a young man reads this announcement, his only takeaway is that the coveted PDE5 inhibitors are within a mile radius of his home. This is the stuff porn performers use so they can put superhuman sexual prowess on the screen, and this impressionable young man wants to try this at home. This amateur has heroic ambitions. Or, it's perhaps that the frequent and sustained exposure to porn has tired his penis out so much that if Cialis could even just help him regain normal function, it would already be a win in his book. So, he drives to the nearest gas station, gets a crappily designed box matching the one the FDA has warned impressionable souls like him not to buy (but still indicated that, wink wink, it was effective) and opens it up to reveal dirty blue powder inside. If he goes through with it, he'll be no different from any drug addict too desperate to stop and think what the drug been cut with and how much longer he can keep up this habit before it lands him in a hospital or worse.

## Anthropic Web Services

Software engineering was supposed to be about finding the most efficient way of automating something very specific on a computer. It was meant to be lucratively supported by the money that no longer had to be wasted on inefficiencies. Enter AI. It is in many ways the least efficient way of using a computer. The AI chatbot has become a service that, after burning through tons of cash, could reasonably approximate the behavior of a small computer program that could, with a one-time investment in a clever implementation, be tailored to the task. Except the AI chatbot is general-purpose, so people have now become conditioned to outsource to it their most basic tasks. Even the math they could do in their heads or on a calculator goes right into the omnibox connected to a network of giant data centers that evaporate water and burn through electricity at a rate incomparable to anything that's ever existed before. So, yes, we are living through crazy times (the AI boom) where we get so enamored with a shiny new toy that we inflate our expectations of it and fill our days keeping it busy with nonsense. However, all the extra air must eventually come out of this bubble, and the demand for software engineers to scale back all these inefficiencies will come soon enough (it cannot come fast enough, really). This tide always turns. The future of AI is in routing. Anthropic is probably writing hundreds of little programs for the common use cases of their chatbot as I'm writing this (why am I not writing $oftware instead?), and the future version of its flagship AI model will simply route user prompts to those efficient little programs. AI will finally be cheap and fast, except it'll belong to one company. As we speak, Anthropic is the only one with a model that's capable enough to churn out quality software on demand. While everyone else is either building software by hand or unsustainably burning through tokens sponsoring Anthropic's massive growth, Claude is, for the large part, automatically rebuilding itself into the only AI model that will be sustainable. So the future will be Anthropic Web Services, its many APIs and SDKs, making wrappers for which will be the sole job responsibility of software engineers, and Claude, the chatbot that could translate natural language into API calls for the above. The new AWS will be more massive and even more disruptive than the old AWS (the one that convinced everyone to move into the cloud). OpenAI and Google will meanwhile revert back to their strongest offerings: voice transcription and Internet search, respectively (sustained only thanks to humans being the creatures of habit).
