# 2026-05-30

[Modern Operating Systems]: https://www.google.com/books/edition/Modern_Operating_Systems_Global_Edition/cHa2EAAAQBAJ
[Uncanny Valley]: https://books.google.com/books?id=5fqTDwAAQBAJ

## Oyster: a streaming service for books

> A cynical, capitalist appropriation of the public library system.

[Uncanny Valley].

Thankfully, the Internet Archive still lets anyone borrow books in its library. It is a true digital equivalent of the public library, one that doesn't depend on some for-profit company aching to enshittify its service once enough people become its users.

## Altering a decision variable with a buffer overflow

```
void A() {
    int authorized;
    char name[128];
    authorized = check_credentials(...); /* the attacker is not authorized, so returns 0 */
    printf("What is your name?\n");
    gets(name);
    if (authorized != 0) {
        printf("Welcome %s, here is all our secret data\n", name);
        /* ... show secret data ... */
    } else
        printf("Sorry %s, but you are not authorized.\n", name);
}
```

[Modern Operating Systems], sec.9.5.1.

Buffer overflow attacks don't necessarily inject malicious code into the execution pipeline. Sometimes the attacker is satisfied with simply overflowing a buffer in such a way that it also overwrites the value of a variable that controls whether the current user is authorized to access sensitive data. This is how data breaches happen (it's not the only way data breaches happen though, sadly). In this example, if the attacker provides 129 characters for the variable _name_, the last character will overwrite the value of _authorized_. If it's not 0, the attacker will be granted access to sensitive data.

## Your AI assistant is not your friend. It is a subscription service.

> However much an app might sound like a friend, what it is is a machine, and behind that machine is a corporation trying to extract a monthly fee from you.

[Last Week Tonight](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Last_Week_Tonight_with_John_Oliver_episodes): April 26, 2026, [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=9a75922c14d3029a42c60057c7792ca6).

AI chatbots are in stage one of enshittification. They're good to users as they're trying to get them addicted to their conversations. In the next stage, the priority will shift to their business customers, and in the one after that, the priority will shift away from everyone. That's the trajectory every big Internet business has followed so far.

## Your coding assistant is not your friend

> Maybe it was a mistake to let some of the most flamboyantly friendless men on Earth be in charge of designing friends for the rest of us. 'Cause all it seems they've really done is hand us a bunch of bots that are pedophiles, suicide enablers, and the occasional cartoon fox who just wants to watch the world burn.

[Last Week Tonight](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_Last_Week_Tonight_with_John_Oliver_episodes): April 26, 2026, [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=9a75922c14d3029a42c60057c7792ca6).

AI companies should've just focused on making coding assistants. If an occasional software engineer discovered that their coding assistant could also give advice on everyday matters, they would proceed at their own risk. But in their greed, corporations couldn't resist trying to monetize every externality of their LLMs, and so now we have AI chatbots that are marketed as friend-for-pay whereas the legitimate use of AI, coding assistance, has very little compute power left over for it (from the asinine conversations that progressively more unwell people are having with it). As the prices inevitably rise, vibe coding becomes a luxury only for the biggest of corporations, further separating the haves from the have-nots. So, not only is AI unsustainable and reckless, it also makes wealth disparities worse. The big corporations that can afford AI coding assistance and thus significantly up the development velocity will be able to write all the software before everyone else can finish their planning sessions. All that'll be left over for the rest of us is the subscription service to an inhuman chatbot we pay to pretend to be our friend.

## Leadership is the rare ability to inspire collective action

> The way you convey power is how everyone else in the room behaves when you enter it. You just act naturally.

[The Cast of ‘The Devil Wears Prada 2’ Reflects on The Original](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=o-O--kXu9iU), [transcribed](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=ef7c668edee109661861c8888a72fe63).

Meryl Streep's character in _The Devil Wears Prada_ inspires fear in everyone around her. But she's never raised her voice or gone out of her way to command this fear. It's just her stature and her reputation that give off this aura around her. So it is in life. If you can get people to behave a certain way as a collective, you could certainly get them to all pull in the same direction, and that qualifies you as their leader.

## Cognitive behavioral therapy works by reframing otherwise intractable mental health problems

> A type of psychotherapy that helps patients change their behavior by changing the way they think and feel about certain things. It is used to treat mental, emotional, personality, and behavioral disorders.

[Cognitive therapy](https://www.cancer.gov/publications/dictionaries/cancer-terms/def/cognitive-therapy).

A good way to approach a mental disorder is the way we should approach all seemingly intractable problems: by reframing it in such a way that the solution follows straightforwardly from the restatement of the problem. Some math problems are hard in one coordinate system but become trivial in another. Our brains sometimes need help getting unstuck not only in the context of solving an academic problem but also a personal one. A brain can get stuck in a loop processing a traumatic event, but reframing this event as character-building adversity, a requirement of attaining excellence, could get one to break out of this loop (I'm not qualified to give mental health advice though).
