# 2026-05-31

[Modern Operating Systems]: https://www.google.com/books/edition/Modern_Operating_Systems_Global_Edition/cHa2EAAAQBAJ
[Enshittification]: https://books.google.com/books?id=eyc4EQAAQBAJ

## App Store fees

> Uber and Lyft are exempt from these fees. Enshittifiers stick together.

[Enshittification].

The present-day economy belongs to enshittifiers. They monopolize the middleman business model, starve out non-enshittifiers with junk fees, and select those made in their image as worthy of access to the customer. This is what Apple does when it exempts ride-sharing apps from junk fees in their app store. This is what Amazon does when it pushes its knockoffs of popular products to the customer with priority placement in the search results and perks like free shipping. This snake will soon start eating its own tail, and the economy will inevitably implode.

## Address sanitizer: a defence against buffer overflows

> By compiling your code with -fsanitize=address, the compiler ensures that every memory allocation is flanked by red zones: small areas of ‘‘invalid’’ memory. Any access to a red zone, for instance as result of a buffer overflow, will lead to a program crash with an appropriately depressing error message. To make this happen, AddressSanitizer keeps a bit map to indicate for each byte of allocated memory that it is valid and for each byte in red zone that it is invalid. Whenever the program accesses memory, it quickly consults the bit map to see if the access is permitted.

[Modern Operating Systems], sec.9.5.1.

In reality, AddressSanitizer is a testing tool. It makes the program twice as slow, which is intolerable for applications in production. So, to test whether a program is vulnerable to buffer overflow attacks, it is first compiled with an AddressSanitizer. If attempts at buffer overflows make AddressSanitizer crash the program, the corresponding portions of the program must be fixed before the release. 
