# [Pivot](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725?episode=46621895424): [12/12/2025](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=7f0dcf5e00505d7b0dd5e541b7729796)

This episode of [Pivot](../../../2025/10/14/pivot.md) answered three questions about seeing through bullshit: in foreign relations, law, and work meetings.

## Why is it important to let our adversaries use our technology? 

So they don't need to invent their own and thus challenge our technological superiority.

> All you do when you embargo China from doing this is they come up with workarounds that are really innovative.

We also don't want to give too much. Diplomacy is about striking the right balance of trade-offs.

> How can we give the Chinese just enough chip technology that it grows our economy and our champions but we still maintain a lead?

## Why do social media companies care so much about protecting the First Amendment rights of underage people? 

Because underage people are easy to monetize, as long as nothing is keeping them from using social media. So, if parents or legislators want to protect minors from social media, the social media companies will find an excuse to deem such efforts unconstitutional.

> Instagram earns $4 billion this year from teens aged 13 to 17. Platforms are going to earn about $13 billion from kids under 18 in 2022, which translates to about, I don't know, somewhere between a hundred billion and a quarter of a trillion dollars. So what do you know? They're worried about their First Amendment rights.

## Why is it a bad idea to talk too much in a meeting? 

Because it betrays a lack of confidence. It also signals to the people that you're not a leader.

> Great leaders listen more than they talk. You are not a great leader yet. You want to impress everybody. You're talking too much.

Leading people means listening to their concerns and finding ways to address them. As you talk, each passing minute is another minute you're not making improvements to your team. You're not even letting your team tell you where improvements are needed. Don't be a bullshitter, be a leader. Words aren't impressive. Actions are. 

# Next

* [The Prof G Pod: The AI Dilemma — with Tristan Harris](../../../2025/12/22/prof-g-pod-tristan-harris.md)
