# [Pivot](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725?episode=47009750881): [12/19/2025](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=2ac7dfd65aaef9fd39b2bcf5308920ce)

This episode of [Pivot](../../../2025/10/14/pivot.md) answered two questions about where we would focus economic policy priorities if we lived in an ideal world.

## What should be the top policy priority?

A Pivot listener asked this question.

> If you could implement one single policy to try and solve the most problems at once, what would it be?

To Kara, it is to raise the minimum wage.

> $25 minimum wage.

If you give money to people who don't have a lot of it, you're propping up the economy of basic necessities (making them cheaper and better for everyone) rather than the economy of luxury goods.

> If people get paid more, they'll spend more. It creates a better economy.

## What should be the top tax policy priority?

Scott wants to do away with the capital gains tax deduction.

> We need to raise long-term capital gains from 21 to 37 percent. It makes no sense that I'm paying lower taxes than people actually working for a living.

He sees this as being unfair to labor. It perpetuates the income inequality between capital and labor for no good reason.

> There is no reason why someone working for money should be taxed at a higher rate than someone who is making money from investments.

If you're lucky enough to have so much money left over that you can invest it, then you should pay a higher share of taxes than someone who can't afford investing.

> The capital gains tax deduction is nothing but a transfer of wealth from young to old, because somehow we've decided that sweat is less noble than money. That is, the money I make on money gets taxed at a lower rate than the money that young people make on sweat. I would like to see an elimination of the capital gains tax deduction and raise those rates to current income and restore a progressive tax structure.

To sell this to Republicans, invoke a name they trust. Tie the new tax policy to the man beloved in those circles. Tie it to Reagan.

> I want to go back to Reagan era taxation.
