# [Pivot](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725?episode=46081553406): [12/2/2025](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=b5f8881f0dc31209fa6c30b2382a1be3)

This episode of [Pivot](../../../2025/10/14/pivot.md) answered a question about the original thought, a preposterous idea.

## If you fail to make a discovery, will it be lost forever?

No, someone else will discover it. Someone else will write a similar book or make a similar movie. There's no such thing as original thought. Kara Swisher reads a passage from _Arcadia_ by Tom Stoppard that explains as much. 

> We shed as we pick up, like travelers who must carry everything in their arms, and what we let fall will be picked up by those behind. The procession is very long and life is very short. We die on the march. But there is nothing outside the march so nothing can be lost to it. The missing plays of Sophocles will turn up piece by piece, or be written again in another language. Ancient cures for diseases will reveal themselves once more. Mathematical discoveries glimpsed and lost to view will have their time again. You do not suppose, my lady, that if all Archimedes had been hiding in the great library of Alexandria, we would be at a loss for corkscrew?

You're not so exceptional that there will never be anyone capable of discovering what you are capable of discovering. Your uniqueness manifests itself not in any individual contribution you make to the human race but in their collection. Every collage is unique. No word belongs to you alone, but the way you string those words together is how you show the world your uniqueness. It's how you put the pieces together as you go through life that matters, not the pieces alone. So, don't spend too much time on any individual piece. Especially not for fear of it getting lost. Someone else will come and pick it up. None of the discoveries you make are unique to you. Don't be discouraged by that. When you make a discovery, even if it's not going to be new to humanity, it's new to you. This is how you learn. We only ever walk paths already taken by others, but the walk matters to us just as much as if it was untrodden. It may take you somewhere no one has yet gone, and even if not, it will always leave you with learned lessons, more pieces to add to your unique collage.
