# [Pivot](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725): [10/10/2025](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=72096deb1745d7036f98e3c3944bbd48)

This episode of [Pivot](../../../2025/10/14/pivot.md) answered a question about the AI bubble.

## When is the AI bubble going to burst? 

Not before all the major deals are made between the corporations that stand to benefit from them.

> OpenAI has now signed about a $1 trillion in deals this year for computing power, partnering with Nvidia, Oracle, and others. This week's massive deal with AMD sent the chipmaker stock soaring by more than 40 percent.

These sorts of deals are what will ultimately cause the bubble to burst.

> Analysts are sounding alarm about these circular deals.

Kara Swisher tells us that this is pretty much what happened with the dotcom bubble. The large corpotations of the 1990s were shifting the money amongst each other until the industry could not longer bullshit its investors.

> It feels very AOL purchase pro, circa the last century. A small network of companies pouring money in each other's coffers, fueling an AI bubble.

In this particular bubble, we have chipmakers hedging their bets by investing in software companies that are direct competitors of each other, like OpenAI and XAI.

> Now, Nvidia is also investing in XAI's latest funding round. They're all sort of propping each other up with the same $5, essentially.

Scott Galloway reminds us that the predictions economists make of the imminent AI bubble burst are probably wrong.

> On average, when experts have consensus, it's usually wrong.

There's still a long track of circular investments ahead, like there was in 1997 when the economists prodicted the imminent burst of the dotcom bubble.

> The economists called the dot com implosion perfectly, but they called it in 1997 before those stocks went up another 30 or 40 percent. So do we know they're going to come down? Yeah. The hard part is figuring out when they're going to come down and if they're going to if they're going to scream to new highs.
