# [The Rachel Maddow Show](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/509873): [9/16/2025](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=83d3d740180b80762af9f5f749ca60cd)

This episode of [Rachel Maddow] did something you don't often see in the news. It reported on good news. It gave surprisingly optimistic answers to a few questions I had about such bleak topics as the Trump administration and cancer.

1. TOC
{:toc}

[Rachel Maddow]: /series/maddow.md

## What to do when someone wrongly accuses someone of a misdeed?

See if they could withstand their own accusations. Chances are, they can't. When the Trump administration accuses the people they want out of their way of a misdeed, it's a tip-off for journalists: this is the kind of misconduct they should be looking for when they're investigating the accusers. And it often pans out. Kara Swisher says that every accusation is a confession. When an emotionally immature person accuses you of a misdeed, it's their way of confessing this misdeed to you. When the Trump administration accused Lisa Cook of mortgage fraud, it was their way of telling the world that it is they who are guilty of this crime, not Lisa Cook.

> The thing for which she is accused is something that has also been done, apparently, by at least three members of Trump's cabinet. His labor secretary, his EPA administrator, and his transportation secretary have all also apparently done what they're accusing Lisa Cook of doing, according to mortgage documents. As have family members of the Trump administration's federal mortgage guy who made this accusation against Lisa Cook in the first place. Now, this weekend and today, we have reporting that Lisa Cook does not appear to have done anything wrong with her mortgage at all. Comments about her mortgage process show that she didn't commit the kind of mortgage fraud that they are accusing her of at all.

They're accusing others of their own crimes because this is what they know. They have experience in skirting the law in these matters. They are in the lead on this. They also know the kinds of rumors they can start regarding these crimes and watch them snowball for the accused to the point where the public perception of them sours.

> This guy has decided to mount an overthrow of the Federal Reserve Bank of the United States of America with the legal equivalent of scribbling something mean about the Fed on a bathroom wall and hoping the rumor mill will take care of the rest.

## How to stand up to Trump?

With peaceful protests. Trump will back down on something if he is resisted. Chicagoans protested his deploying the National Guard into their city, and so he didn't.

> If you are watching me right now and you are one of the people, one of the tens of thousands of people who went to those big peaceful protests and rallies and demonstrations against Trump's promised invasion of Chicago, congratulations, you did it. You stopped him. It worked. He did not send troops. He does not like being resisted. And when people resist him, more often than not, he stops what he's doing. He gets diverted, moves on to try something else instead.

Trump is a dictator-wannabe. He has many strongman ideas, and he announces them to the public.

> You better watch out or you're going to get a US military invasion of your city unless you say "no" real loud, in which case, _okay then, no invasion. I'll go invade somewhere else, maybe._

He chooses the path of least resistance, so if you don't want him doing something, just resist him, and he'll back off.

## How is the flight against cancer going? 

We've made significant progress in the last 50 years.

> In the mid-1970s, America's five-year cancer survival rate sat at 49%. Today it's 68%.

Most cancer was a death sentence 50 years ago. Not anymore. 
