# [Pivot](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725?episode=42427723779): [9/12/2025](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=4e8e6c61f438e8ed3d97a6160dd7cf3e)

This episode of [Pivot](../../../2025/10/14/pivot.md) answered three burning questions of the day.

## Is the political right more toxic than the political left?

Yes, the reactions to the Charlie Kirk shooting showed us that the leaders on the right are not afraid to echo the worst, most toxic trolls among their followers.

> I haven't seen any famous person from the left who has any credibility saying anything but, _our hearts go out to the family, violence is not the answer, this needs to stop_. And then you have very famous right-wing hosts saying, _this is it, this is war, and it's the radical left._

## What motivates mass shooters and political assassins?

Social isolation, radicalization, and easy access to weapons.

> Typically, they're young men who are hoping to regain social capital with what they see as a heroic act of violence. They're, you know, isolated and feel like people don't respect them, are looking to gain back social capital, and think they can get it because they've been convinced this person or this movement is truly demonic and that they would be heroic in killing this person. And, oh, by the way, Dad's got a sniper rifle.

Entry-level drug dealers resort to violence in their ambition to become gang leaders. Young men in America have been increasingly drawn to the same sort of radical behavior. Is our country becoming more like a gang? Or, perhaps, the increasingly extreme rhetoric on social media is making it seem so. It plants the seeds of desperation comparable to those of destitute communities ravaged by drug epidemics. And that's how we get well-off, attractive, upper-middle-class men like Luigi gunning down a health insurance CEO. He's had so much going for him, but he got radicalized and threw it all away.

## Is the AI bubble about to burst?

OpenAI, the leader in AI, thinks not. The growth projections they use in borrowing money forecast at least a six-fold expansion of this already massively overvalued company.

> OpenAI has said, _we're going to pay Oracle $60 billion a year for compute despite the fact we are currently only making 10 billion a year_. They are so confident in their growth that they've just committed to spend $60 billion a year on compute despite only currently making 10 billion.
