# [Pivot](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725): [9/16/2025](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=120adafcd19591f1e8d1f9fc2eece2d2)

This episode of [Pivot] answered several questions I had about AI and our increasingly divided and isolated society.

1. TOC
{:toc}

[Pivot]: /series/pivot.md

## When are we going to see someone try to sell us AI-generated superhero movies?

Imminently. It's going to be a Warner Bros. movie.

> It's going to happen at Ellison's company with the help and the urging of Dad at Oracle.

Scott Galloway now refers to Warner Bros. as David Ellison's company. David is Larry Ellison's son. Larry, the founder of Oracle, just signed a contract for OpenAI to use the Oracle cloud for compute.

> Larry Ellison figured out there should be a number two to Nvidia, stopped doing stock buybacks, made a massive bet on being the number two infrastructure provider in AI, and announced an agreement where OpenAI was going to commit to $60 billion a year and compute from Oracle, despite the fact it's only running at $10 billion a year. And in one day, Larry Ellison increased his net worth $130 billion.

With this windfall of cash, Larry is likely buying his son David Warner Bros.

> Larry Ellison could buy three Warner Bros. with the gain in wealth he registered in one day.

Once Warner Bros. is in David's hands, he's going to have to maximize shareholder value, and one way to do so is to cut costs.

> I need you, David Ellison, to come here, and we're going to figure out how to take a $200 million film and produce it for $20 million.

His dad Larry will probably insist on cutting these costs with AI since he's so invested in this technology. The ensuing AI slop that will be tarnishing our screens will be the cringiest thing to come out in 2026, mark my words. 

## What is technical debt?

> The term technical debt means preexisting investments make it just really difficult to sort of untangle everything, and expensive.

A company fires the software engineers, replaces them with AI to write their software, the AI buries the codebases in slop, the software stops working, the company rehires the software engineers, and now they have to dig through all the AI nonsense to try to undo it to get the software to work again. That last part is tech debt. When companies make stupid decisions (like cramming AI into everything), they commit to tech debt. Everything has a price, and the stupid pay twice.

## Can AI replace lawyers?

No. Just ask OpenAI if they're using AI to replace their lawyers.

> They must be spending 10 or 20 million dollars a month on lawyers right now. I would love to know, as a case study, how, if, and how they're deploying their own AI to reduce their own legal costs.

## How much of our economy depends on keeping us addicted to social media?

> Forty percent of the S&P right now is represented by companies that have an economic incentive to divide us.

Scott calls this the rage machine. We only see what the algorithms place at the top of our feeds, and it's not just content that gets the most likes. It's also content that gets the most comments. You know, the controversial stuff. The stuff that trolls or foreign bots wrote to provoke our emotional responses and get us to fight with each other. This is terrible for society (it might lead to a civil war), but apparently, this is good for the economy.

## Is there any benefit to drinking alcohol? 

No amount of alcohol is beneficial to your health. However, Scott Galloway says you should still drink if this is what makes you want to interact with other people.

> Trust me, kids, the risk to your 25-year-old liver of alcohol is dwarfed by the risk of social isolation.

And if you find a way to interact with other people that doesn't involve drinking, you will get the benefits of social interactions without the harms of alcohol.
