# [Pivot](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/174725): [11/18/2025](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=f90c1f13fcad7b45a696e856b16ef3c5)

This episode of [Pivot](../../../2025/10/14/pivot.md) answered three questions about the professional world, America, and the news.

## Is there value in staying with one company for decades?

Yes, loyalty can be a powerful thing. Forming deep bonds with people you work with makes you feel happier and more secure.

> If someone works with you for 25 years, it means at some point they screwed up and you forgave them. And at some point you screwed up and they stayed with you. It goes beyond just kind of a professional relationship. It means that they feel comfortable with you, you feel comfortable with them and you're loyal to each other.

The counterargument is that every time you change jobs, you're giving yourself a raise, so if you stay with the same company for a long time, you're missing on raises. To make sure you're still paid just as fairly as you would had you left your job, interview with other places, bring the offers they gave you to your boss, and ask him to match the highest one. This way, not only are you remaining loyal to your company (by staying) but also commanding your boss's respect.

## Why is America so far behind on the happiness index?

Because Americans live in constant fear of ruin from a medical emergency.

> People think of happiness as having stuff or the ability to have stuff, which America defines, but actually a bigger component of happiness is absence from fear that things are gonna be taken from you. And in the US, there's a real fear that your dignity will be taken from you and the health of your loved ones, because it's so fucking expensive and people can't afford it.

## Why is Sam Altman requesting such high investment in cloud computing resources for ChatGPT?

For the same reason he's been going around stoking fears about AI becoming sentient and rising up against humanity. It's marketing. He's simply making his company's product appear bigger than it is.

> The "trillion dollar plus commitments or framework" that Sam Altman has made to try and convince everybody, "I know more than you, and this is so fucking huge. I need 60 nuclear power plants and 300 billion in compute from Oracle," I think a lot of that is marketing.
