# [Static Electric and Magnetic Fields and Human Health](https://web.archive.org/web/20140902054000/http://www.mcw.edu/radiationoncology/ourdepartment/radiationbiology/Static-Electric-and-Magnetic-F.htm)

This FAQ was referenced by [Wikipedia's article on non-ionizing radiation](../../../2025/12/01/wikipedia_non-ionizing_radiation.md). It helped me answer the questions about electromagnetic radiation.

## What is the difference between Hz and GHz radiation? 

The difference is in how quickly its electric field vector oscillates (or over how great a distance). A photon carries with it an intrinsic property expressed mathematically as an electric field vector. As a photon travels away from its source, its E-vector continuously changes direction. In his popular science book _QED_, Richard Feynman likened the continuously changing direction of the electric field vector of a photon to the hand of a stopwatch. If the hand of the stopwatch hits the same position 50 times a second, it's a 50Hz stopwatch. It simulates the changes in the electric field vector of a photon emanating from the power line (50Hz). Because a photon travels with the speed of light, it will be 5000 km away by the time its E-vector completes even a single cycle. A photon, the E-vector of which changes so little as it passes through your body, is very unlikely to disturb any of the molecules in it. Neither are microwaves, each photon of which completes its cycle as it travels 10 cm. A photon of red light completes its cycle as it travels 700 nm, and a photon of blue light — 500 nm. Our eyes are sensitive enough to detect changes between these frequencies of light (hence we can tell apart colors). However, only a small percentage of the photons of visible light pass through our skin, so they have little chance to interact with the molecules in our bodies beyond those in the skin and the eyes, and even there, the effects are not harmful under normal conditions. It seems that we only need additional protection from the radiation with the wavelength of less than 380 nm. The E-vectors of the photons in such high-energy radiation change so fast that the likelihood of them disturbing molecules increases as to fall into the realm of possibility.

> Power-frequency fields are 50 or 60 Hz and have a wavelength of about 5000 km. By contrast, microwave ovens have a frequency of 2.54 billion Hz and a wavelength of about 10 cm, and X-rays have frequencies of 10^15 Hz and, and wavelengths of much less than 100 nm.

## Why do we see light with the wavelengths of between 380 and 700 nm but no other wavelengths? 

Because these photons are just energetic enough to be detectable at the molecular level in our eyes but not energetic enough to cause damage to them (they can excite electrons but not rip them from molecules). We couldn't evolve UV or X-ray vision even as these photons are easier to detect at the molecular level (they disturb molecules to a far too significant degree to remain undetectable) because they are so damaging: they can cause chemical changes. We couldn't evolve infrared vision because these photons don't disturb the molecules enough to be detectable by our bodies (unless the beam is so strong as to induce electric currents in our tissues, where the heat generated from them will be picked up by thermoreceptors).

> RF and MW sources can cause effects by inducing electric currents in tissues, which cause heating. The efficiency with which an electromagnetic source can induce electric currents, and thus produce heating, depends on the frequency of the energy, and the size and orientation of the object being heated. At frequencies below that used for broadcast AM radio (about 10^6 Hz), electromagnetic sources couple poorly with the bodies of humans and animals, and thus are very inefficient at inducing electric currents and causing heating.

## Do power lines harm the health of people standing next to them?

Researchers interested in this topic keep thinking up hypotheses that attribute various diseases to power lines.

> Henshaw and Fews have speculated that the radioactive decay products of radon, and other potentially-carcinogenic airborne particles, might be attracted to strong electric field sources, and that there could be enhanced exposure to such carcinogenic agents near high-voltage power lines. They went on to theorize that this provided a mechanism for an association between AC power lines and childhood leukemia. In 1999, Henshaw and Fews amended their hypothesis to suggest that ions produced by corona from high voltage power lines might attach to aerosol pollutants (for example, motor vehicle exhaust) and increase the probability that these pollutants would be deposited in the lung.

None of such hypotheses have so far been justified with any suporting evidence.
