# [Biggest e-mail blunder](https://web.archive.org/web/20010922235714/http://www.austin360.com/aas/kelso/0801/081901.html)

This article was referenced by the [Wikipedia article about the automatic complaint-letter generator](https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Automatic_Complaint-Letter_Generator), which, in turn, was referenced by [Wikipedia's discussion about chatbot comments in discussions](../../../2025/10/07/wikipedia_chatbot_comments_in_discussions.md). It tells a bewildering story of a prank gone wrong.

## What is the biggest email blunder of all time? 

It could be one where a person tasked with writing a speech to introduce the mayor tried to prank his team member by sending her an unhinged rant about the mayor as if it was his speech, but instead sent it to the mayor himself.

> Weyland, a sales and marketing trainer — and a known wisenheimer — was picked by his Austin Toastmasters club to introduce recently resigned Austin Mayor Kirk Watson at a club meeting. Weeks before the meeting, Jennifer Collins, a fellow Toastmasters member, checked to see how his speech was coming. Weyland assured her his Watson speech was ready to go. Then, as a joke, he went online and called up Scott Pakin's automatic complaint-letter generator, at www-csag.cs.uiuc.edu/individual/pakin/complaint. The Web site instantly produces insulting, rambling, nonsensical verbiage about anyone you want to slam. Weyland, who had never met the mayor, plugged in Watson's name and hit the "complain" button. "The only thing worse than being ignorant is not knowing how ignorant you are," Weyland's instantly created "speech" began. "That's Hon. Kirk Watson's problem. But first, let me pose you a question: is Kirk actually concerned about any of us, or does he just want to permit horny, tasteless suborners of perjury to rise to positions of leadership and authority?" The diatribe went on for four pages. Weyland e-mailed the joke to Collins — he thought. Actually, he had e-mailed it to the mayor's office by mistake. "The real question here is not, 'What does Kirk hope to achieve by repeatedly applying his lips to the posteriors of drugged-out immoral prima donnas?' " the "speech" said. "The real question is rather, 'Whatever happened to Kirk's sense of humanity?' "
