# [Real Time](https://podcastindex.org/podcast/742515): [10/4/2025](https://writecomments.com/transcripts/?md5=ba2219fe2839085199e3db9f10df19e3)

This episode of [Real Time](../../../2025/10/16/real-time.md) answered four burning questions of the day.

## What is the most oppressive place in the world for a woman?

Probably Afghanistan. Meryl Streep recently delivered a speech to call attention to the Taliban ideology as it relates to women's rights.

> A squirrel has more rights than a girl in Afghanistan because a squirrel can go to the park.

## Is civil society losing its civility?

After social media and Donald Trump, it would be surprising if it wasn't, Thomas Friedman noted.

> The way I look at the world right now, we're going through a lot of social change, we're going through a lot of technological change. The pot would be boiling. But then along came Mark Zuckerberg and he turned the heat up on the pot. And then along came Trump and he took the lid off the pot. And he made it permissible, popular, and profitable to say and do things to and about each other we never did before.

Social media has released people's inhibitions. With a thin cloak of anonymity and dehumanization provided by the computer screen, humans stopped being civil to each other online, and it's starting to spill over offline. The Trump movement is characterized by an unlimited expression of hatred his supporters feel for whoever they're blaming for their problems.

## How far along are we in the AI hype cycle? 

We're at the gadget phase. They're putting AI chatbots on necklaces now.

> Now that there's an AI-powered necklace you can buy called Friend that listens to everything you say and then gives you positive feedback, I'd just like to say to the poor, lonely people who buy this, if you think you have no real friends now, wait 'til everyone sees you talking to your necklace.

## What is Bill Maher's review of the book _107 Days_ by Kamala Harris?

He sees it as Kamala unfairly characterizing herself to the world as a blameless victim failed by America.

> It should have been called "Everyone Sucks But Me." "107 Days" is a victim's title, because _get it, she only had 107 days to win_. Yeah, and a billion and a half dollars, and a built-in army of about 75 million people who'd vote for any human-adjacent life form that wasn't Trump. But in "107 Days," nothing is ever Kamala's fault. Biden lets her down by not stepping down sooner, pouty face emoji. Gavin Newsom, he was asked for his endorsement, but texted, "Hiking, will call back," but then never did. And then he didn't even ask her to prom. America itself lets Kamala down by not being ready for the running mate she really wanted, Pete Buttigieg. So she's stuck with the Home Depot paint salesman. And the rest is herstory. Poor Kamala, we made her the star of a rom-com and didn't even give her a gay best friend.

# Next

* [Taliban bans the sound of women’s voices singing or reading in public](../../../2025/10/17/r_news_taliban_bans_the_sound_of_womens_voices_singing.md)
